Exodus 18:1	When Jethro, the priest of Midian, Moses' father in law, heard of all that God had done for Moses, and for Israel his people, and that the LORD had brought Israel out of Egypt;
Exodus 18:2	Then Jethro, Moses' father in law, took Zipporah, Moses' wife, after he had sent her back,
Exodus 18:3	And her two sons; of which the name of the one was Gershom; for he said, I have been an alien in a strange land:
Exodus 18:4	And the name of the other was Eliezer; for the God of my father, said he, was mine help, and delivered me from the sword of Pharaoh:
Exodus 18:5	And Jethro, Moses' father in law, came with his sons and his wife unto Moses into the wilderness, where he encamped at the mount of God:
Exodus 18:6	And he said unto Moses, I thy father in law Jethro am come unto thee, and thy wife, and her two sons with her.
Exodus 18:7	And Moses went out to meet his father in law, and did obeisance, and kissed him; and they asked each other of their welfare; and they came into the tent.
Exodus 18:8	And Moses told his father in law all that the LORD had done unto Pharaoh and to the Egyptians for Israel's sake, and all the travail that had come upon them by the way, and how the LORD delivered them.
Exodus 18:9	And Jethro rejoiced for all the goodness which the LORD had done to Israel, whom he had delivered out of the hand of the Egyptians.
Exodus 18:10	And Jethro said, Blessed be the LORD, who hath delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of Pharaoh, who hath delivered the people from under the hand of the Egyptians.
Exodus 18:11	Now I know that the LORD is greater than all gods: for in the thing wherein they dealt proudly he was above them.
Exodus 18:12	And Jethro, Moses' father in law, took a burnt offering and sacrifices for God: and Aaron came, and all the elders of Israel, to eat bread with Moses' father in law before God.
Exodus 18:13	And it came to pass on the morrow, that Moses sat to judge the people: and the people stood by Moses from the morning unto the evening.
Exodus 18:14	And when Moses' father in law saw all that he did to the people, he said, What is this thing that thou doest to the people? why sittest thou thyself alone, and all the people stand by thee from morning unto even?
Exodus 18:15	And Moses said unto his father in law, Because the people come unto me to inquire of God:
Exodus 18:16	When they have a matter, they come unto me; and I judge between one and another, and I do make them know the statutes of God, and his laws.
Exodus 18:17	And Moses' father in law said unto him, The thing that thou doest is not good.
Exodus 18:18	Thou wilt surely wear away, both thou, and this people that is with thee: for this thing is too heavy for thee; thou art not able to perform it thyself alone.
Exodus 18:19	Hearken now unto my voice, I will give thee counsel, and God shall be with thee: Be thou for the people to God-ward, that thou mayest bring the causes unto God:
Exodus 18:20	And thou shalt teach them ordinances and laws, and shalt show them the way wherein they must walk, and the work that they must do.
Exodus 18:21	Moreover thou shalt provide out of all the people able men, such as fear God, men of truth, hating covetousness; and place such over them, to be rulers of thousands, and rulers of hundreds, rulers of fifties, and rulers of tens:
Exodus 18:22	And let them judge the people at all seasons: and it shall be, that every great matter they shall bring unto thee, but every small matter they shall judge: so shall it be easier for thyself, and they shall bear the burden with thee.
Exodus 18:23	If thou shalt do this thing, and God command thee so, then thou shalt be able to endure, and all this people shall also go to their place in peace.
Exodus 18:24	So Moses hearkened to the voice of his father in law, and did all that he had said.
Exodus 18:25	And Moses chose able men out of all Israel, and made them heads over the people, rulers of thousands, rulers of hundreds, rulers of fifties, and rulers of tens.
Exodus 18:26	And they judged the people at all seasons: the hard causes they brought unto Moses, but every small matter they judged themselves.
Exodus 18:27	And Moses let his father in law depart; and he went his way into his own land.
Exodus 19:1	In the third month, when the children of Israel were gone forth out of the land of Egypt, the same day came they into the wilderness of Sinai.
Exodus 19:2	For they were departed from Rephidim, and were come to the desert of Sinai, and had pitched in the wilderness; and there Israel camped before the mount.
Exodus 19:3	And Moses went up unto God, and the LORD called unto him out of the mountain, saying, Thus shalt thou say to the house of Jacob, and tell the children of Israel;
Exodus 19:4	Ye have seen what I did unto the Egyptians, and how I bare you on eagles' wings, and brought you unto myself.
Exodus 19:5	Now therefore, if ye will obey my voice indeed, and keep my covenant, then ye shall be a peculiar treasure unto me above all people: for all the earth is mine:
Exodus 19:6	And ye shall be unto me a kingdom of priests, and an holy nation. These are the words which thou shalt speak unto the children of Israel.
Exodus 19:7	And Moses came and called for the elders of the people, and laid before their faces all these words which the LORD commanded him.
Exodus 19:8	And all the people answered together, and said, All that the LORD hath spoken we will do. And Moses returned the words of the people unto the LORD.
Exodus 19:9	And the LORD said unto Moses, Lo, I come unto thee in a thick cloud, that the people may hear when I speak with thee, and believe thee for ever. And Moses told the words of the people unto the LORD.
Exodus 19:10	And the LORD said unto Moses, Go unto the people, and sanctify them to day and to morrow, and let them wash their clothes,
Exodus 19:11	And be ready against the third day: for the third day the LORD will come down in the sight of all the people upon mount Sinai.
Exodus 19:12	And thou shalt set bounds unto the people round about, saying, Take heed to yourselves, that ye go not up into the mount, or touch the border of it: whosoever toucheth the mount shall be surely put to death:
Exodus 19:13	There shall not an hand touch it, but he shall surely be stoned, or shot through; whether it be beast or man, it shall not live: when the trumpet soundeth long, they shall come up to the mount.
Exodus 19:14	And Moses went down from the mount unto the people, and sanctified the people; and they washed their clothes.
Exodus 19:15	And he said unto the people, Be ready against the third day: come not at your wives.
Exodus 19:16	And it came to pass on the third day in the morning, that there were thunders and lightnings, and a thick cloud upon the mount, and the voice of the trumpet exceeding loud; so that all the people that was in the camp trembled.
Exodus 19:17	And Moses brought forth the people out of the camp to meet with God; and they stood at the nether part of the mount.
Exodus 19:18	And mount Sinai was altogether on a smoke, because the LORD descended upon it in fire: and the smoke thereof ascended as the smoke of a furnace, and the whole mount quaked greatly.
Exodus 19:19	And when the voice of the trumpet sounded long, and waxed louder and louder, Moses spake, and God answered him by a voice.
Exodus 19:20	And the LORD came down upon mount Sinai, on the top of the mount: and the LORD called Moses up to the top of the mount; and Moses went up.
Exodus 19:21	And the LORD said unto Moses, Go down, charge the people, lest they break through unto the LORD to gaze, and many of them perish.
Exodus 19:22	And let the priests also, which come near to the LORD, sanctify themselves, lest the LORD break forth upon them.
Exodus 19:23	And Moses said unto the LORD, The people cannot come up to mount Sinai: for thou chargedst us, saying, Set bounds about the mount, and sanctify it.
Exodus 19:24	And the LORD said unto him, Away, get thee down, and thou shalt come up, thou, and Aaron with thee: but let not the priests and the people break through to come up unto the LORD, lest he break forth upon them.
Exodus 19:25	So Moses went down unto the people, and spake unto them.
Exodus 20:1	And God spake all these words, saying,
Exodus 20:2	I am the LORD thy God, which have brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage.
Exodus 20:3	Thou shalt have no other gods before me.
Exodus 20:4	Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image, or any likeness of any thing that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth.
Exodus 20:5	Thou shalt not bow down thyself to them, nor serve them: for I the LORD thy God am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto the third and fourth generation of them that hate me;
Exodus 20:6	And showing mercy unto thousands of them that love me, and keep my commandments.
Exodus 20:7	Thou shalt not take the name of the LORD thy God in vain; for the LORD will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain.
Exodus 20:8	Remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy.
Exodus 20:9	Six days shalt thou labor, and do all thy work:
Exodus 20:10	But the seventh day is the sabbath of the LORD thy God: in it thou shalt not do any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy manservant, nor thy maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates:
Exodus 20:11	For in six days the LORD made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that in them is, and rested the seventh day: wherefore the LORD blessed the sabbath day, and hallowed it.
Exodus 20:12	Honor thy father and thy mother: that thy days may be long upon the land which the LORD thy God giveth thee.
Exodus 20:13	Thou shalt not kill.
Exodus 20:14	Thou shalt not commit adultery.
Exodus 20:15	Thou shalt not steal.
Exodus 20:16	Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor.
Exodus 20:17	Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's house, thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's wife, nor his manservant, nor his maidservant, nor his ox, nor his ass, nor any thing that is thy neighbor's.
Exodus 20:18	And all the people saw the thunderings, and the lightnings, and the noise of the trumpet, and the mountain smoking: and when the people saw it, they removed, and stood afar off.
Exodus 20:19	And they said unto Moses, Speak thou with us, and we will hear: but let not God speak with us, lest we die.
Exodus 20:20	And Moses said unto the people, Fear not: for God is come to prove you, and that his fear may be before your faces, that ye sin not.
Exodus 20:21	And the people stood afar off, and Moses drew near unto the thick darkness where God was.
Exodus 20:22	And the LORD said unto Moses, Thus thou shalt say unto the children of Israel, Ye have seen that I have talked with you from heaven.
Exodus 20:23	Ye shall not make with me gods of silver, neither shall ye make unto you gods of gold.
Exodus 20:24	An altar of earth thou shalt make unto me, and shalt sacrifice thereon thy burnt offerings, and thy peace offerings, thy sheep, and thine oxen: in all places where I record my name I will come unto thee, and I will bless thee.
Exodus 20:25	And if thou wilt make me an altar of stone, thou shalt not build it of hewn stone: for if thou lift up thy tool upon it, thou hast polluted it.
Exodus 20:26	Neither shalt thou go up by steps unto mine altar, that thy nakedness be not discovered thereon.
Exodus 21:1	Now these are the judgments which thou shalt set before them.
Exodus 21:2	If thou buy an Hebrew servant, six years he shall serve: and in the seventh he shall go out free for nothing.
Exodus 21:3	If he came in by himself, he shall go out by himself: if he were married, then his wife shall go out with him.
Exodus 21:4	If his master have given him a wife, and she have born him sons or daughters; the wife and her children shall be her master's, and he shall go out by himself.
Exodus 21:5	And if the servant shall plainly say, I love my master, my wife, and my children; I will not go out free:
Exodus 21:6	Then his master shall bring him unto the judges; he shall also bring him to the door, or unto the door post; and his master shall bore his ear through with an awl; and he shall serve him for ever.
Exodus 21:7	And if a man sell his daughter to be a maidservant, she shall not go out as the menservants do.
Exodus 21:8	If she please not her master, who hath betrothed her to himself, then shall he let her be redeemed: to sell her unto a strange nation he shall have no power, seeing he hath dealt deceitfully with her.
Exodus 21:9	And if he have betrothed her unto his son, he shall deal with her after the manner of daughters.
Exodus 21:10	If he take him another wife; her food, her raiment, and her duty of marriage, shall he not diminish.
Exodus 21:11	And if he do not these three unto her, then shall she go out free without money.
Exodus 21:12	He that smiteth a man, so that he die, shall be surely put to death.
Exodus 21:13	And if a man lie not in wait, but God deliver him into his hand; then I will appoint thee a place whither he shall flee.
Exodus 21:14	But if a man come presumptuously upon his neighbor, to slay him with guile; thou shalt take him from mine altar, that he may die.
Exodus 21:15	And he that smiteth his father, or his mother, shall be surely put to death.
Exodus 21:16	And he that stealeth a man, and selleth him, or if he be found in his hand, he shall surely be put to death.
Exodus 21:17	And he that curseth his father, or his mother, shall surely be put to death.
Exodus 21:18	And if men strive together, and one smite another with a stone, or with his fist, and he die not, but keepeth his bed:
Exodus 21:19	If he rise again, and walk abroad upon his staff, then shall he that smote him be quit: only he shall pay for the loss of his time, and shall cause him to be thoroughly healed.
Exodus 21:20	And if a man smite his servant, or his maid, with a rod, and he die under his hand; he shall be surely punished.
Exodus 21:21	Notwithstanding, if he continue a day or two, he shall not be punished: for he is his money.
Exodus 21:22	If men strive, and hurt a woman with child, so that her fruit depart from her, and yet no mischief follow: he shall be surely punished, according as the woman's husband will lay upon him; and he shall pay as the judges determine.
Exodus 21:23	And if any mischief follow, then thou shalt give life for life,
Exodus 21:24	Eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot,
Exodus 21:25	Burning for burning, wound for wound, stripe for stripe.
Exodus 21:26	And if a man smite the eye of his servant, or the eye of his maid, that it perish; he shall let him go free for his eye's sake.
Exodus 21:27	And if he smite out his manservant's tooth, or his maidservant's tooth; he shall let him go free for his tooth's sake.
Exodus 21:28	If an ox gore a man or a woman, that they die: then the ox shall be surely stoned, and his flesh shall not be eaten; but the owner of the ox shall be quit.
Exodus 21:29	But if the ox were wont to push with his horn in time past, and it hath been testified to his owner, and he hath not kept him in, but that he hath killed a man or a woman; the ox shall be stoned, and his owner also shall be put to death.
Exodus 21:30	If there be laid on him a sum of money, then he shall give for the ransom of his life whatsoever is laid upon him.
Exodus 21:31	Whether he have gored a son, or have gored a daughter, according to this judgment shall it be done unto him.
Exodus 21:32	If the ox shall push a manservant or a maidservant; he shall give unto their master thirty shekels of silver, and the ox shall be stoned.
Exodus 21:33	And if a man shall open a pit, or if a man shall dig a pit, and not cover it, and an ox or an ass fall therein;
Exodus 21:34	The owner of the pit shall make it good, and give money unto the owner of them; and the dead beast shall be his.
Exodus 21:35	And if one man's ox hurt another's, that he die; then they shall sell the live ox, and divide the money of it; and the dead ox also they shall divide.
Exodus 21:36	Or if it be known that the ox hath used to push in time past, and his owner hath not kept him in; he shall surely pay ox for ox; and the dead shall be his own.
Exodus 22:1	If a man shall steal an ox, or a sheep, and kill it, or sell it; he shall restore five oxen for an ox, and four sheep for a sheep.
Exodus 22:2	If a thief be found breaking up, and be smitten that he die, there shall no blood be shed for him.
Exodus 22:3	If the sun be risen upon him, there shall be blood shed for him; for he should make full restitution; if he have nothing, then he shall be sold for his theft.
Exodus 22:4	If the theft be certainly found in his hand alive, whether it be ox, or ass, or sheep; he shall restore double.
Exodus 22:5	If a man shall cause a field or vineyard to be eaten, and shall put in his beast, and shall feed in another man's field; of the best of his own field, and of the best of his own vineyard, shall he make restitution.
Exodus 22:6	If fire break out, and catch in thorns, so that the stacks of corn, or the standing corn, or the field, be consumed therewith; he that kindled the fire shall surely make restitution.
Exodus 22:7	If a man shall deliver unto his neighbor money or stuff to keep, and it be stolen out of the man's house; if the thief be found, let him pay double.
Exodus 22:8	If the thief be not found, then the master of the house shall be brought unto the judges, to see whether he have put his hand unto his neighbor's goods.
Exodus 22:9	For all manner of trespass, whether it be for ox, for ass, for sheep, for raiment, or for any manner of lost thing which another challengeth to be his, the cause of both parties shall come before the judges; and whom the judges shall condemn, he shall pay double unto his neighbor.
Exodus 22:10	If a man deliver unto his neighbor an ass, or an ox, or a sheep, or any beast, to keep; and it die, or be hurt, or driven away, no man seeing it:
Exodus 22:11	Then shall an oath of the LORD be between them both, that he hath not put his hand unto his neighbor's goods; and the owner of it shall accept thereof, and he shall not make it good.
Exodus 22:12	And if it be stolen from him, he shall make restitution unto the owner thereof.
Exodus 22:13	If it be torn in pieces, then let him bring it for witness, and he shall not make good that which was torn.
Exodus 22:14	And if a man borrow ought of his neighbor, and it be hurt, or die, the owner thereof being not with it, he shall surely make it good.
Exodus 22:15	But if the owner thereof be with it, he shall not make it good: if it be an hired thing, it came for his hire.
Exodus 22:16	And if a man entice a maid that is not betrothed, and lie with her, he shall surely endow her to be his wife.
Exodus 22:17	If her father utterly refuse to give her unto him, he shall pay money according to the dowry of virgins.
Exodus 22:18	Thou shalt not suffer a witch to live.
Exodus 22:19	Whosoever lieth with a beast shall surely be put to death.
Exodus 22:20	He that sacrificeth unto any god, save unto the LORD only, he shall be utterly destroyed.
Exodus 22:21	Thou shalt neither vex a stranger, nor oppress him: for ye were strangers in the land of Egypt.
Exodus 22:22	Ye shall not afflict any widow, or fatherless child.
Exodus 22:23	If thou afflict them in any wise, and they cry at all unto me, I will surely hear their cry;
Exodus 22:24	And my wrath shall wax hot, and I will kill you with the sword; and your wives shall be widows, and your children fatherless.
Exodus 22:25	If thou lend money to any of my people that is poor by thee, thou shalt not be to him as an usurer, neither shalt thou lay upon him usury.
Exodus 22:26	If thou at all take thy neighbor's raiment to pledge, thou shalt deliver it unto him by that the sun goeth down:
Exodus 22:27	For that is his covering only, it is his raiment for his skin: wherein shall he sleep? and it shall come to pass, when he crieth unto me, that I will hear; for I am gracious.
Exodus 22:28	Thou shalt not revile the gods, nor curse the ruler of thy people.
Exodus 22:29	Thou shalt not delay to offer the first of thy ripe fruits, and of thy liquors: the firstborn of thy sons shalt thou give unto me.
Exodus 22:30	Likewise shalt thou do with thine oxen, and with thy sheep: seven days it shall be with his dam; on the eighth day thou shalt give it me.
Exodus 22:31	And ye shall be holy men unto me: neither shall ye eat any flesh that is torn of beasts in the field; ye shall cast it to the dogs.
Exodus 23:1	Thou shalt not raise a false report: put not thine hand with the wicked to be an unrighteous witness.
Exodus 23:2	Thou shalt not follow a multitude to do evil; neither shalt thou speak in a cause to decline after many to wrest judgment:
Exodus 23:3	Neither shalt thou countenance a poor man in his cause.
Exodus 23:4	If thou meet thine enemy's ox or his ass going astray, thou shalt surely bring it back to him again.
Exodus 23:5	If thou see the ass of him that hateth thee lying under his burden, and wouldest forbear to help him, thou shalt surely help with him.
Exodus 23:6	Thou shalt not wrest the judgment of thy poor in his cause.
Exodus 23:7	Keep thee far from a false matter; and the innocent and righteous slay thou not: for I will not justify the wicked.
Exodus 23:8	And thou shalt take no gift: for the gift blindeth the wise, and perverteth the words of the righteous.
Exodus 23:9	Also thou shalt not oppress a stranger: for ye know the heart of a stranger, seeing ye were strangers in the land of Egypt.
Exodus 23:10	And six years thou shalt sow thy land, and shalt gather in the fruits thereof:
Exodus 23:11	But the seventh year thou shalt let it rest and lie still; that the poor of thy people may eat: and what they leave the beasts of the field shall eat. In like manner thou shalt deal with thy vineyard, and with thy oliveyard.
Exodus 23:12	Six days thou shalt do thy work, and on the seventh day thou shalt rest: that thine ox and thine ass may rest, and the son of thy handmaid, and the stranger, may be refreshed.
Exodus 23:13	And in all things that I have said unto you be circumspect: and make no mention of the name of other gods, neither let it be heard out of thy mouth.
Exodus 23:14	Three times thou shalt keep a feast unto me in the year.
Exodus 23:15	Thou shalt keep the feast of unleavened bread: (thou shalt eat unleavened bread seven days, as I commanded thee, in the time appointed of the month Abib; for in it thou camest out from Egypt: and none shall appear before me empty:)
Exodus 23:16	And the feast of harvest, the firstfruits of thy labors, which thou hast sown in the field: and the feast of ingathering, which is in the end of the year, when thou hast gathered in thy labors out of the field.
Exodus 23:17	Three items in the year all thy males shall appear before the LORD God.
Exodus 23:18	Thou shalt not offer the blood of my sacrifice with leavened bread; neither shall the fat of my sacrifice remain until the morning.
Exodus 23:19	The first of the firstfruits of thy land thou shalt bring into the house of the LORD thy God. Thou shalt not seethe a kid in his mother's milk.
Exodus 23:20	Behold, I send an Angel before thee, to keep thee in the way, and to bring thee into the place which I have prepared.
Exodus 23:21	Beware of him, and obey his voice, provoke him not; for he will not pardon your transgressions: for my name is in him.
Exodus 23:22	But if thou shalt indeed obey his voice, and do all that I speak; then I will be an enemy unto thine enemies, and an adversary unto thine adversaries.
Exodus 23:23	For mine Angel shall go before thee, and bring thee in unto the Amorites, and the Hittites, and the Perizzites, and the Canaanites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites: and I will cut them off.
Exodus 23:24	Thou shalt not bow down to their gods, nor serve them, nor do after their works: but thou shalt utterly overthrow them, and quite break down their images.
Exodus 23:25	And ye shall serve the LORD your God, and he shall bless thy bread, and thy water; and I will take sickness away from the midst of thee.
Exodus 23:26	There shall nothing cast their young, nor be barren, in thy land: the number of thy days I will fulfil.
Exodus 23:27	I will send my fear before thee, and will destroy all the people to whom thou shalt come, and I will make all thine enemies turn their backs unto thee.
Exodus 23:28	And I will send hornets before thee, which shall drive out the Hivite, the Canaanite, and the Hittite, from before thee.
Exodus 23:29	I will not drive them out from before thee in one year; lest the land become desolate, and the beast of the field multiply against thee.
Exodus 23:30	By little and little I will drive them out from before thee, until thou be increased, and inherit the land.
Exodus 23:31	And I will set thy bounds from the Red sea even unto the sea of the Philistines, and from the desert unto the river: for I will deliver the inhabitants of the land into your hand; and thou shalt drive them out before thee.
Exodus 23:32	Thou shalt make no covenant with them, nor with their gods.
Exodus 23:33	They shall not dwell in thy land, lest they make thee sin against me: for if thou serve their gods, it will surely be a snare unto thee.
Exodus 24:1	And he said unto Moses, Come up unto the LORD, thou, and Aaron, Nadab, and Abihu, and seventy of the elders of Israel; and worship ye afar off.
Exodus 24:2	And Moses alone shall come near the LORD: but they shall not come nigh; neither shall the people go up with him.
Exodus 24:3	And Moses came and told the people all the words of the LORD, and all the judgments: and all the people answered with one voice, and said, All the words which the LORD hath said will we do.
Exodus 24:4	And Moses wrote all the words of the LORD, and rose up early in the morning, and builded an altar under the hill, and twelve pillars, according to the twelve tribes of Israel.
Exodus 24:5	And he sent young men of the children of Israel, which offered burnt offerings, and sacrificed peace offerings of oxen unto the LORD.
Exodus 24:6	And Moses took half of the blood, and put it in basins; and half of the blood he sprinkled on the altar.
Exodus 24:7	And he took the book of the covenant, and read in the audience of the people: and they said, All that the LORD hath said will we do, and be obedient.
Exodus 24:8	And Moses took the blood, and sprinkled it on the people, and said, Behold the blood of the covenant, which the LORD hath made with you concerning all these words.
Exodus 24:9	Then went up Moses, and Aaron, Nadab, and Abihu, and seventy of the elders of Israel:
Exodus 24:10	And they saw the God of Israel: and there was under his feet as it were a paved work of a sapphire stone, and as it were the body of heaven in his clearness.
Exodus 24:11	And upon the nobles of the children of Israel he laid not his hand: also they saw God, and did eat and drink.
Exodus 24:12	And the LORD said unto Moses, Come up to me into the mount, and be there: and I will give thee tables of stone, and a law, and commandments which I have written; that thou mayest teach them.
Exodus 24:13	And Moses rose up, and his minister Joshua: and Moses went up into the mount of God.
Exodus 24:14	And he said unto the elders, Tarry ye here for us, until we come again unto you: and, behold, Aaron and Hur are with you: if any man have any matters to do, let him come unto them.
Exodus 24:15	And Moses went up into the mount, and a cloud covered the mount.
Exodus 24:16	And the glory of the LORD abode upon mount Sinai, and the cloud covered it six days: and the seventh day he called unto Moses out of the midst of the cloud.
Exodus 24:17	And the sight of the glory of the LORD was like devouring fire on the top of the mount in the eyes of the children of Israel.
Exodus 24:18	And Moses went into the midst of the cloud, and gat him up into the mount: and Moses was in the mount forty days and forty nights.
Exodus 25:1	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
Exodus 25:2	Speak unto the children of Israel, that they bring me an offering: of every man that giveth it willingly with his heart ye shall take my offering.
Exodus 25:3	And this is the offering which ye shall take of them; gold, and silver, and brass,
Exodus 25:4	And blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine linen, and goats' hair,
Exodus 25:5	And rams' skins dyed red, and badgers' skins, and shittim wood,
Exodus 25:6	Oil for the light, spices for anointing oil, and for sweet incense,
Exodus 25:7	Onyx stones, and stones to be set in the ephod, and in the breastplate.
Exodus 25:8	And let them make me a sanctuary; that I may dwell among them.
Exodus 25:9	According to all that I show thee, after the pattern of the tabernacle, and the pattern of all the instruments thereof, even so shall ye make it.
Exodus 25:10	And they shall make an ark of shittim wood: two cubits and a half shall be the length thereof, and a cubit and a half the breadth thereof, and a cubit and a half the height thereof.
Exodus 25:11	And thou shalt overlay it with pure gold, within and without shalt thou overlay it, and shalt make upon it a crown of gold round about.
Exodus 25:12	And thou shalt cast four rings of gold for it, and put them in the four corners thereof; and two rings shall be in the one side of it, and two rings in the other side of it.
Exodus 25:13	And thou shalt make staves of shittim wood, and overlay them with gold.
Exodus 25:14	And thou shalt put the staves into the rings by the sides of the ark, that the ark may be borne with them.
Exodus 25:15	The staves shall be in the rings of the ark: they shall not be taken from it.
Exodus 25:16	And thou shalt put into the ark the testimony which I shall give thee.
Exodus 25:17	And thou shalt make a mercy seat of pure gold: two cubits and a half shall be the length thereof, and a cubit and a half the breadth thereof.
Exodus 25:18	And thou shalt make two cherubim of gold, of beaten work shalt thou make them, in the two ends of the mercy seat.
Exodus 25:19	And make one cherub on the one end, and the other cherub on the other end: even of the mercy seat shall ye make the cherubim on the two ends thereof.
Exodus 25:20	And the cherubim shall stretch forth their wings on high, covering the mercy seat with their wings, and their faces shall look one to another; toward the mercy seat shall the faces of the cherubim be.
Exodus 25:21	And thou shalt put the mercy seat above upon the ark; and in the ark thou shalt put the testimony that I shall give thee.
Exodus 25:22	And there I will meet with thee, and I will commune with thee from above the mercy seat, from between the two cherubim which are upon the ark of the testimony, of all things which I will give thee in commandment unto the children of Israel.
Exodus 25:23	Thou shalt also make a table of shittim wood: two cubits shall be the length thereof, and a cubit the breadth thereof, and a cubit and a half the height thereof.
Exodus 25:24	And thou shalt overlay it with pure gold, and make thereto a crown of gold round about.
Exodus 25:25	And thou shalt make unto it a border of an hand breadth round about, and thou shalt make a golden crown to the border thereof round about.
Exodus 25:26	And thou shalt make for it four rings of gold, and put the rings in the four corners that are on the four feet thereof.
Exodus 25:27	Over against the border shall the rings be for places of the staves to bear the table.
Exodus 25:28	And thou shalt make the staves of shittim wood, and overlay them with gold, that the table may be borne with them.
Exodus 25:29	And thou shalt make the dishes thereof, and spoons thereof, and covers thereof, and bowls thereof, to cover withal: of pure gold shalt thou make them.
Exodus 25:30	And thou shalt set upon the table showbread before me always.
Exodus 25:31	And thou shalt make a candlestick of pure gold: of beaten work shall the candlestick be made: his shaft, and his branches, his bowls, his knops, and his flowers, shall be of the same.
Exodus 25:32	And six branches shall come out of the sides of it; three branches of the candlestick out of the one side, and three branches of the candlestick out of the other side:
Exodus 25:33	Three bowls made like unto almonds, with a knop and a flower in one branch; and three bowls made like almonds in the other branch, with a knop and a flower: so in the six branches that come out of the candlestick.
Exodus 25:34	And in the candlesticks shall be four bowls made like unto almonds, with their knops and their flowers.
Exodus 25:35	And there shall be a knop under two branches of the same, and a knop under two branches of the same, and a knop under two branches of the same, according to the six branches that proceed out of the candlestick.
Exodus 25:36	Their knops and their branches shall be of the same: all it shall be one beaten work of pure gold.
Exodus 25:37	And thou shalt make the seven lamps thereof: and they shall light the lamps thereof, that they may give light over against it.
Exodus 25:38	And the tongs thereof, and the snuffdishes thereof, shall be of pure gold.
Exodus 25:39	Of a talent of pure gold shall he make it, with all these vessels.
Exodus 25:40	And look that thou make them after their pattern, which was showed thee in the mount.
Exodus 26:1	Moreover thou shalt make the tabernacle with ten curtains of fine twined linen, and blue, and purple, and scarlet: with cherubim of cunning work shalt thou make them.
Exodus 26:2	The length of one curtain shall be eight and twenty cubits, and the breadth of one curtain four cubits: and every one of the curtains shall have one measure.
Exodus 26:3	The five curtains shall be coupled together one to another; and other five curtains shall be coupled one to another.
Exodus 26:4	And thou shalt make loops of blue upon the edge of the one curtain from the selvedge in the coupling; and likewise shalt thou make in the uttermost edge of another curtain, in the coupling of the second.
Exodus 26:5	Fifty loops shalt thou make in the one curtain, and fifty loops shalt thou make in the edge of the curtain that is in the coupling of the second; that the loops may take hold one of another.
Exodus 26:6	And thou shalt make fifty taches of gold, and couple the curtains together with the taches: and it shall be one tabernacle.
Exodus 26:7	And thou shalt make curtains of goats' hair to be a covering upon the tabernacle: eleven curtains shalt thou make.
Exodus 26:8	The length of one curtain shall be thirty cubits, and the breadth of one curtain four cubits: and the eleven curtains shall be all of one measure.
Exodus 26:9	And thou shalt couple five curtains by themselves, and six curtains by themselves, and shalt double the sixth curtain in the forefront of the tabernacle.
Exodus 26:10	And thou shalt make fifty loops on the edge of the one curtain that is outmost in the coupling, and fifty loops in the edge of the curtain which coupleth the second.
Exodus 26:11	And thou shalt make fifty taches of brass, and put the taches into the loops, and couple the tent together, that it may be one.
Exodus 26:12	And the remnant that remaineth of the curtains of the tent, the half curtain that remaineth, shall hang over the backside of the tabernacle.
Exodus 26:13	And a cubit on the one side, and a cubit on the other side of that which remaineth in the length of the curtains of the tent, it shall hang over the sides of the tabernacle on this side and on that side, to cover it.
Exodus 26:14	And thou shalt make a covering for the tent of rams' skins dyed red, and a covering above of badgers' skins.
Exodus 26:15	And thou shalt make boards for the tabernacle of shittim wood standing up.
Exodus 26:16	Ten cubits shall be the length of a board, and a cubit and a half shall be the breadth of one board.
Exodus 26:17	Two tenons shall there be in one board, set in order one against another: thus shalt thou make for all the boards of the tabernacle.
Exodus 26:18	And thou shalt make the boards for the tabernacle, twenty boards on the south side southward.
Exodus 26:19	And thou shalt make forty sockets of silver under the twenty boards; two sockets under one board for his two tenons, and two sockets under another board for his two tenons.
Exodus 26:20	And for the second side of the tabernacle on the north side there shall be twenty boards:
Exodus 26:21	And their forty sockets of silver; two sockets under one board, and two sockets under another board.
Exodus 26:22	And for the sides of the tabernacle westward thou shalt make six boards.
Exodus 26:23	And two boards shalt thou make for the corners of the tabernacle in the two sides.
Exodus 26:24	And they shall be coupled together beneath, and they shall be coupled together above the head of it unto one ring: thus shall it be for them both; they shall be for the two corners.
Exodus 26:25	And they shall be eight boards, and their sockets of silver, sixteen sockets; two sockets under one board, and two sockets under another board.
Exodus 26:26	And thou shalt make bars of shittim wood; five for the boards of the one side of the tabernacle,
Exodus 26:27	And five bars for the boards of the other side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the boards of the side of the tabernacle, for the two sides westward.
Exodus 26:28	And the middle bar in the midst of the boards shall reach from end to end.
Exodus 26:29	And thou shalt overlay the boards with gold, and make their rings of gold for places for the bars: and thou shalt overlay the bars with gold.
Exodus 26:30	And thou shalt rear up the tabernacle according to the fashion thereof which was showed thee in the mount.
Exodus 26:31	And thou shalt make a vail of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen of cunning work: with cherubim shall it be made:
Exodus 26:32	And thou shalt hang it upon four pillars of shittim wood overlaid with gold: their hooks shall be of gold, upon the four sockets of silver.
Exodus 26:33	And thou shalt hang up the vail under the taches, that thou mayest bring in thither within the vail the ark of the testimony: and the vail shall divide unto you between the holy place and the most holy.
Exodus 26:34	And thou shalt put the mercy seat upon the ark of the testimony in the most holy place.
Exodus 26:35	And thou shalt set the table without the vail, and the candlestick over against the table on the side of the tabernacle toward the south: and thou shalt put the table on the north side.
Exodus 26:36	And thou shalt make an hanging for the door of the tent, of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen, wrought with needlework.
Exodus 26:37	And thou shalt make for the hanging five pillars of shittim wood, and overlay them with gold, and their hooks shall be of gold: and thou shalt cast five sockets of brass for them.
Exodus 27:1	And thou shalt make an altar of shittim wood, five cubits long, and five cubits broad; the altar shall be foursquare: and the height thereof shall be three cubits.
Exodus 27:2	And thou shalt make the horns of it upon the four corners thereof: his horns shall be of the same: and thou shalt overlay it with brass.
Exodus 27:3	And thou shalt make his pans to receive his ashes, and his shovels, and his basins, and his fleshhooks, and his firepans: all the vessels thereof thou shalt make of brass.
Exodus 27:4	And thou shalt make for it a grate of network of brass; and upon the net shalt thou make four brazen rings in the four corners thereof.
Exodus 27:5	And thou shalt put it under the compass of the altar beneath, that the net may be even to the midst of the altar.
Exodus 27:6	And thou shalt make staves for the altar, staves of shittim wood, and overlay them with brass.
Exodus 27:7	And the staves shall be put into the rings, and the staves shall be upon the two sides of the altar, to bear it.
Exodus 27:8	Hollow with boards shalt thou make it: as it was showed thee in the mount, so shall they make it.
Exodus 27:9	And thou shalt make the court of the tabernacle: for the south side southward there shall be hangings for the court of fine twined linen of an hundred cubits long for one side:
Exodus 27:10	And the twenty pillars thereof and their twenty sockets shall be of brass; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets shall be of silver.
Exodus 27:11	And likewise for the north side in length there shall be hangings of an hundred cubits long, and his twenty pillars and their twenty sockets of brass; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets of silver.
Exodus 27:12	And for the breadth of the court on the west side shall be hangings of fifty cubits: their pillars ten, and their sockets ten.
Exodus 27:13	And the breadth of the court on the east side eastward shall be fifty cubits.
Exodus 27:14	The hangings of one side of the gate shall be fifteen cubits: their pillars three, and their sockets three.
Exodus 27:15	And on the other side shall be hangings fifteen cubits: their pillars three, and their sockets three.
Exodus 27:16	And for the gate of the court shall be an hanging of twenty cubits, of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen, wrought with needlework: and their pillars shall be four, and their sockets four.
Exodus 27:17	All the pillars round about the court shall be filleted with silver; their hooks shall be of silver, and their sockets of brass.
Exodus 27:18	The length of the court shall be an hundred cubits, and the breadth fifty every where, and the height five cubits of fine twined linen, and their sockets of brass.
Exodus 27:19	All the vessels of the tabernacle in all the service thereof, and all the pins thereof, and all the pins of the court, shall be of brass.
Exodus 27:20	And thou shalt command the children of Israel, that they bring thee pure oil olive beaten for the light, to cause the lamp to burn always.
Exodus 27:21	In the tabernacle of the congregation without the vail, which is before the testimony, Aaron and his sons shall order it from evening to morning before the LORD: it shall be a statute for ever unto their generations on the behalf of the children of Israel.
Exodus 28:1	And take thou unto thee Aaron thy brother, and his sons with him, from among the children of Israel, that he may minister unto me in the priest's office, even Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar, Aaron's sons.
Exodus 28:2	And thou shalt make holy garments for Aaron thy brother for glory and for beauty.
Exodus 28:3	And thou shalt speak unto all that are wise hearted, whom I have filled with the spirit of wisdom, that they may make Aaron's garments to consecrate him, that he may minister unto me in the priest's office.
Exodus 28:4	And these are the garments which they shall make; a breastplate, and an ephod, and a robe, and a broidered coat, a mitre, and a girdle: and they shall make holy garments for Aaron thy brother, and his sons, that he may minister unto me in the priest's office.
Exodus 28:5	And they shall take gold, and blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine linen.
Exodus 28:6	And they shall make the ephod of gold, of blue, and of purple, of scarlet, and fine twined linen, with cunning work.
Exodus 28:7	It shall have the two shoulderpieces thereof joined at the two edges thereof; and so it shall be joined together.
Exodus 28:8	And the curious girdle of the ephod, which is upon it, shall be of the same, according to the work thereof; even of gold, of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen.
Exodus 28:9	And thou shalt take two onyx stones, and grave on them the names of the children of Israel:
Exodus 28:10	Six of their names on one stone, and the other six names of the rest on the other stone, according to their birth.
Exodus 28:11	With the work of an engraver in stone, like the engravings of a signet, shalt thou engrave the two stones with the names of the children of Israel: thou shalt make them to be set in ouches of gold.
Exodus 28:12	And thou shalt put the two stones upon the shoulders of the ephod for stones of memorial unto the children of Israel: and Aaron shall bear their names before the LORD upon his two shoulders for a memorial.
Exodus 28:13	And thou shalt make ouches of gold;
Exodus 28:14	And two chains of pure gold at the ends; of wreathed work shalt thou make them, and fasten the wreathed chains to the ouches.
Exodus 28:15	And thou shalt make the breastplate of judgment with cunning work; after the work of the ephod thou shalt make it; of gold, of blue, and of purple, and of scarlet, and of fine twined linen, shalt thou make it.
Exodus 28:16	Foursquare it shall be being doubled; a span shall be the length thereof, and a span shall be the breadth thereof.
Exodus 28:17	And thou shalt set in it settings of stones, even four rows of stones: the first row shall be a sardius, a topaz, and a carbuncle: this shall be the first row.
Exodus 28:18	And the second row shall be an emerald, a sapphire, and a diamond.
Exodus 28:19	And the third row a ligure, an agate, and an amethyst.
Exodus 28:20	And the fourth row a beryl, and an onyx, and a jasper: they shall be set in gold in their inclosings.
Exodus 28:21	And the stones shall be with the names of the children of Israel, twelve, according to their names, like the engravings of a signet; every one with his name shall they be according to the twelve tribes.
Exodus 28:22	And thou shalt make upon the breastplate chains at the ends of wreathed work of pure gold.
Exodus 28:23	And thou shalt make upon the breastplate two rings of gold, and shalt put the two rings on the two ends of the breastplate.
Exodus 28:24	And thou shalt put the two wreathed chains of gold in the two rings which are on the ends of the breastplate.
Exodus 28:25	And the other two ends of the two wreathed chains thou shalt fasten in the two ouches, and put them on the shoulderpieces of the ephod before it.
Exodus 28:26	And thou shalt make two rings of gold, and thou shalt put them upon the two ends of the breastplate in the border thereof, which is in the side of the ephod inward.
Exodus 28:27	And two other rings of gold thou shalt make, and shalt put them on the two sides of the ephod underneath, toward the forepart thereof, over against the other coupling thereof, above the curious girdle of the ephod.
Exodus 28:28	And they shall bind the breastplate by the rings thereof unto the rings of the ephod with a lace of blue, that it may be above the curious girdle of the ephod, and that the breastplate be not loosed from the ephod.
Exodus 28:29	And Aaron shall bear the names of the children of Israel in the breastplate of judgment upon his heart, when he goeth in unto the holy place, for a memorial before the LORD continually.
Exodus 28:30	And thou shalt put in the breastplate of judgment the Urim and the Thummim; and they shall be upon Aaron's heart, when he goeth in before the LORD: and Aaron shall bear the judgment of the children of Israel upon his heart before the LORD continually.
Exodus 28:31	And thou shalt make the robe of the ephod all of blue.
Exodus 28:32	And there shall be an hole in the top of it, in the midst thereof: it shall have a binding of woven work round about the hole of it, as it were the hole of an habergeon, that it be not rent.
Exodus 28:33	And beneath upon the hem of it thou shalt make pomegranates of blue, and of purple, and of scarlet, round about the hem thereof; and bells of gold between them round about:
Exodus 28:34	A golden bell and a pomegranate, a golden bell and a pomegranate, upon the hem of the robe round about.
Exodus 28:35	And it shall be upon Aaron to minister: and his sound shall be heard when he goeth in unto the holy place before the LORD, and when he cometh out, that he die not.
Exodus 28:36	And thou shalt make a plate of pure gold, and grave upon it, like the engravings of a signet, HOLINESS TO THE LORD.
Exodus 28:37	And thou shalt put it on a blue lace, that it may be upon the mitre; upon the forefront of the mitre it shall be.
Exodus 28:38	And it shall be upon Aaron's forehead, that Aaron may bear the iniquity of the holy things, which the children of Israel shall hallow in all their holy gifts; and it shall be always upon his forehead, that they may be accepted before the LORD.
Exodus 28:39	And thou shalt embroider the coat of fine linen, and thou shalt make the mitre of fine linen, and thou shalt make the girdle of needlework.
Exodus 28:40	And for Aaron's sons thou shalt make coats, and thou shalt make for them girdles, and bonnets shalt thou make for them, for glory and for beauty.
Exodus 28:41	And thou shalt put them upon Aaron thy brother, and his sons with him; and shalt anoint them, and consecrate them, and sanctify them, that they may minister unto me in the priest's office.
Exodus 28:42	And thou shalt make them linen breeches to cover their nakedness; from the loins even unto the thighs they shall reach:
Exodus 28:43	And they shall be upon Aaron, and upon his sons, when they come in unto the tabernacle of the congregation, or when they come near unto the altar to minister in the holy place; that they bear not iniquity, and die: it shall be a statute for ever unto him and his seed after him.
Exodus 29:1	And this is the thing that thou shalt do unto them to hallow them, to minister unto me in the priest's office: Take one young bullock, and two rams without blemish,
Exodus 29:2	And unleavened bread, and cakes unleavened tempered with oil, and wafers unleavened anointed with oil: of wheaten flour shalt thou make them.
Exodus 29:3	And thou shalt put them into one basket, and bring them in the basket, with the bullock and the two rams.
Exodus 29:4	And Aaron and his sons thou shalt bring unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and shalt wash them with water.
Exodus 29:5	And thou shalt take the garments, and put upon Aaron the coat, and the robe of the ephod, and the ephod, and the breastplate, and gird him with the curious girdle of the ephod:
Exodus 29:6	And thou shalt put the mitre upon his head, and put the holy crown upon the mitre.
Exodus 29:7	Then shalt thou take the anointing oil, and pour it upon his head, and anoint him.
Exodus 29:8	And thou shalt bring his sons, and put coats upon them.
Exodus 29:9	And thou shalt gird them with girdles, Aaron and his sons, and put the bonnets on them: and the priest's office shall be theirs for a perpetual statute: and thou shalt consecrate Aaron and his sons.
Exodus 29:10	And thou shalt cause a bullock to be brought before the tabernacle of the congregation: and Aaron and his sons shall put their hands upon the head of the bullock.
Exodus 29:11	And thou shalt kill the bullock before the LORD, by the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.
Exodus 29:12	And thou shalt take of the blood of the bullock, and put it upon the horns of the altar with thy finger, and pour all the blood beside the bottom of the altar.
Exodus 29:13	And thou shalt take all the fat that covereth the inwards, and the caul that is above the liver, and the two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, and burn them upon the altar.
Exodus 29:14	But the flesh of the bullock, and his skin, and his dung, shalt thou burn with fire without the camp: it is a sin offering.
Exodus 29:15	Thou shalt also take one ram; and Aaron and his sons shall put their hands upon the head of the ram.
Exodus 29:16	And thou shalt slay the ram, and thou shalt take his blood, and sprinkle it round about upon the altar.
Exodus 29:17	And thou shalt cut the ram in pieces, and wash the inwards of him, and his legs, and put them unto his pieces, and unto his head.
Exodus 29:18	And thou shalt burn the whole ram upon the altar: it is a burnt offering unto the LORD: it is a sweet savor, an offering made by fire unto the LORD.
Exodus 29:19	And thou shalt take the other ram; and Aaron and his sons shall put their hands upon the head of the ram.
Exodus 29:20	Then shalt thou kill the ram, and take of his blood, and put it upon the tip of the right ear of Aaron, and upon the tip of the right ear of his sons, and upon the thumb of their right hand, and upon the great toe of their right foot, and sprinkle the blood upon the altar round about.
Exodus 29:21	And thou shalt take of the blood that is upon the altar, and of the anointing oil, and sprinkle it upon Aaron, and upon his garments, and upon his sons, and upon the garments of his sons with him: and he shall be hallowed, and his garments, and his sons, and his sons' garments with him.
Exodus 29:22	Also thou shalt take of the ram the fat and the rump, and the fat that covereth the inwards, and the caul above the liver, and the two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, and the right shoulder; for it is a ram of consecration:
Exodus 29:23	And one loaf of bread, and one cake of oiled bread, and one wafer out of the basket of the unleavened bread that is before the LORD:
Exodus 29:24	And thou shalt put all in the hands of Aaron, and in the hands of his sons; and shalt wave them for a wave offering before the LORD.
Exodus 29:25	And thou shalt receive them of their hands, and burn them upon the altar for a burnt offering, for a sweet savor before the LORD: it is an offering made by fire unto the LORD.
Exodus 29:26	And thou shalt take the breast of the ram of Aaron's consecration, and wave it for a wave offering before the LORD: and it shall be thy part.
Exodus 29:27	And thou shalt sanctify the breast of the wave offering, and the shoulder of the heave offering, which is waved, and which is heaved up, of the ram of the consecration, even of that which is for Aaron, and of that which is for his sons:
Exodus 29:28	And it shall be Aaron's and his sons' by a statute for ever from the children of Israel: for it is an heave offering: and it shall be an heave offering from the children of Israel of the sacrifice of their peace offerings, even their heave offering unto the LORD.
Exodus 29:29	And the holy garments of Aaron shall be his sons' after him, to be anointed therein, and to be consecrated in them.
Exodus 29:30	And that son that is priest in his stead shall put them on seven days, when he cometh into the tabernacle of the congregation to minister in the holy place.
Exodus 29:31	And thou shalt take the ram of the consecration, and seethe his flesh in the holy place.
Exodus 29:32	And Aaron and his sons shall eat the flesh of the ram, and the bread that is in the basket by the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.
Exodus 29:33	And they shall eat those things wherewith the atonement was made, to consecrate and to sanctify them: but a stranger shall not eat thereof, because they are holy.
Exodus 29:34	And if ought of the flesh of the consecrations, or of the bread, remain unto the morning, then thou shalt burn the remainder with fire: it shall not be eaten, because it is holy.
Exodus 29:35	And thus shalt thou do unto Aaron, and to his sons, according to all things which I have commanded thee: seven days shalt thou consecrate them.
Exodus 29:36	And thou shalt offer every day a bullock for a sin offering for atonement: and thou shalt cleanse the altar, when thou hast made an atonement for it, and thou shalt anoint it, to sanctify it.
Exodus 29:37	Seven days thou shalt make an atonement for the altar, and sanctify it; and it shall be an altar most holy: whatsoever toucheth the altar shall be holy.
Exodus 29:38	Now this is that which thou shalt offer upon the altar; two lambs of the first year day by day continually.
Exodus 29:39	The one lamb thou shalt offer in the morning; and the other lamb thou shalt offer at even:
Exodus 29:40	And with the one lamb a tenth deal of flour mingled with the fourth part of an hin of beaten oil; and the fourth part of an hin of wine for a drink offering.
Exodus 29:41	And the other lamb thou shalt offer at even, and shalt do thereto according to the meat offering of the morning, and according to the drink offering thereof, for a sweet savor, an offering made by fire unto the LORD.
Exodus 29:42	This shall be a continual burnt offering throughout your generations at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation before the LORD: where I will meet you, to speak there unto thee.
Exodus 29:43	And there I will meet with the children of Israel, and the tabernacle shall be sanctified by my glory.
Exodus 29:44	And I will sanctify the tabernacle of the congregation, and the altar: I will sanctify also both Aaron and his sons, to minister to me in the priest's office.
Exodus 29:45	And I will dwell among the children of Israel, and will be their God.
Exodus 29:46	And they shall know that I am the LORD their God, that brought them forth out of the land of Egypt, that I may dwell among them: I am the LORD their God.
Exodus 30:1	And thou shalt make an altar to burn incense upon: of shittim wood shalt thou make it.
Exodus 30:2	A cubit shall be the length thereof, and a cubit the breadth thereof; foursquare shall it be: and two cubits shall be the height thereof: the horns thereof shall be of the same.
Exodus 30:3	And thou shalt overlay it with pure gold, the top thereof, and the sides thereof round about, and the horns thereof; and thou shalt make unto it a crown of gold round about.
Exodus 30:4	And two golden rings shalt thou make to it under the crown of it, by the two corners thereof, upon the two sides of it shalt thou make it; and they shall be for places for the staves to bear it withal.
Exodus 30:5	And thou shalt make the staves of shittim wood, and overlay them with gold.
Exodus 30:6	And thou shalt put it before the vail that is by the ark of the testimony, before the mercy seat that is over the testimony, where I will meet with thee.
Exodus 30:7	And Aaron shall burn thereon sweet incense every morning: when he dresseth the lamps, he shall burn incense upon it.
Exodus 30:8	And when Aaron lighteth the lamps at even, he shall burn incense upon it, a perpetual incense before the LORD throughout your generations.
Exodus 30:9	Ye shall offer no strange incense thereon, nor burnt sacrifice, nor meat offering; neither shall ye pour drink offering thereon.
Exodus 30:10	And Aaron shall make an atonement upon the horns of it once in a year with the blood of the sin offering of atonements: once in the year shall he make atonement upon it throughout your generations: it is most holy unto the LORD.
Exodus 30:11	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
Exodus 30:12	When thou takest the sum of the children of Israel after their number, then shall they give every man a ransom for his soul unto the LORD, when thou numberest them; that there be no plague among them, when thou numberest them.
Exodus 30:13	This they shall give, every one that passeth among them that are numbered, half a shekel after the shekel of the sanctuary: (a shekel is twenty gerahs:) an half shekel shall be the offering of the LORD.
Exodus 30:14	Every one that passeth among them that are numbered, from twenty years old and above, shall give an offering unto the LORD.
Exodus 30:15	The rich shall not give more, and the poor shall not give less than half a shekel, when they give an offering unto the LORD, to make an atonement for your souls.
Exodus 30:16	And thou shalt take the atonement money of the children of Israel, and shalt appoint it for the service of the tabernacle of the congregation; that it may be a memorial unto the children of Israel before the LORD, to make an atonement for your souls.
Exodus 30:17	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
Exodus 30:18	Thou shalt also make a laver of brass, and his foot also of brass, to wash withal: and thou shalt put it between the tabernacle of the congregation and the altar, and thou shalt put water therein.
Exodus 30:19	For Aaron and his sons shall wash their hands and their feet thereat:
Exodus 30:20	When they go into the tabernacle of the congregation, they shall wash with water, that they die not; or when they come near to the altar to minister, to burn offering made by fire unto the LORD:
Exodus 30:21	So they shall wash their hands and their feet, that they die not: and it shall be a statute for ever to them, even to him and to his seed throughout their generations.
Exodus 30:22	Moreover the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
Exodus 30:23	Take thou also unto thee principal spices, of pure myrrh five hundred shekels, and of sweet cinnamon half so much, even two hundred and fifty shekels, and of sweet calamus two hundred and fifty shekels,
Exodus 30:24	And of cassia five hundred shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary, and of oil olive an hin:
Exodus 30:25	And thou shalt make it an oil of holy ointment, an ointment compound after the art of the apothecary: it shall be an holy anointing oil.
Exodus 30:26	And thou shalt anoint the tabernacle of the congregation therewith, and the ark of the testimony,
Exodus 30:27	And the table and all his vessels, and the candlestick and his vessels, and the altar of incense,
Exodus 30:28	And the altar of burnt offering with all his vessels, and the laver and his foot.
Exodus 30:29	And thou shalt sanctify them, that they may be most holy: whatsoever toucheth them shall be holy.
Exodus 30:30	And thou shalt anoint Aaron and his sons, and consecrate them, that they may minister unto me in the priest's office.
Exodus 30:31	And thou shalt speak unto the children of Israel, saying, This shall be an holy anointing oil unto me throughout your generations.
Exodus 30:32	Upon man's flesh shall it not be poured, neither shall ye make any other like it, after the composition of it: it is holy, and it shall be holy unto you.
Exodus 30:33	Whosoever compoundeth any like it, or whosoever putteth any of it upon a stranger, shall even be cut off from his people.
Exodus 30:34	And the LORD said unto Moses, Take unto thee sweet spices, stacte, and onycha, and galbanum; these sweet spices with pure frankincense: of each shall there be a like weight:
Exodus 30:35	And thou shalt make it a perfume, a confection after the art of the apothecary, tempered together, pure and holy:
Exodus 30:36	And thou shalt beat some of it very small, and put of it before the testimony in the tabernacle of the congregation, where I will meet with thee: it shall be unto you most holy.
Exodus 30:37	And as for the perfume which thou shalt make, ye shall not make to yourselves according to the composition thereof: it shall be unto thee holy for the LORD.
Exodus 30:38	Whosoever shall make like unto that, to smell thereto, shall even be cut off from his people.
Exodus 31:1	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
Exodus 31:2	See, I have called by name Bezaleel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah:
Exodus 31:3	And I have filled him with the spirit of God, in wisdom, and in understanding, and in knowledge, and in all manner of workmanship,
Exodus 31:4	To devise cunning works, to work in gold, and in silver, and in brass,
Exodus 31:5	And in cutting of stones, to set them, and in carving of timber, to work in all manner of workmanship.
Exodus 31:6	And I, behold, I have given with him Aholiab, the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan: and in the hearts of all that are wise hearted I have put wisdom, that they may make all that I have commanded thee;
Exodus 31:7	The tabernacle of the congregation, and the ark of the testimony, and the mercy seat that is thereupon, and all the furniture of the tabernacle,
Exodus 31:8	And the table and his furniture, and the pure candlestick with all his furniture, and the altar of incense,
Exodus 31:9	And the altar of burnt offering with all his furniture, and the laver and his foot,
Exodus 31:10	And the cloths of service, and the holy garments for Aaron the priest, and the garments of his sons, to minister in the priest's office,
Exodus 31:11	And the anointing oil, and sweet incense for the holy place: according to all that I have commanded thee shall they do.
Exodus 31:12	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
Exodus 31:13	Speak thou also unto the children of Israel, saying, Verily my sabbaths ye shall keep: for it is a sign between me and you throughout your generations; that ye may know that I am the LORD that doth sanctify you.
Exodus 31:14	Ye shall keep the sabbath therefore; for it is holy unto you: every one that defileth it shall surely be put to death: for whosoever doeth any work therein, that soul shall be cut off from among his people.
Exodus 31:15	Six days may work be done; but in the seventh is the sabbath of rest, holy to the LORD: whosoever doeth any work in the sabbath day, he shall surely be put to death.
Exodus 31:16	Wherefore the children of Israel shall keep the sabbath, to observe the sabbath throughout their generations, for a perpetual covenant.
Exodus 31:17	It is a sign between me and the children of Israel for ever: for in six days the LORD made heaven and earth, and on the seventh day he rested, and was refreshed.
Exodus 31:18	And he gave unto Moses, when he had made an end of communing with him upon mount Sinai, two tables of testimony, tables of stone, written with the finger of God.
Exodus 32:1	And when the people saw that Moses delayed to come down out of the mount, the people gathered themselves together unto Aaron, and said unto him, Up, make us gods, which shall go before us; for as for this Moses, the man that brought us up out of the land of Egypt, we wot not what is become of him.
Exodus 32:2	And Aaron said unto them, Break off the golden earrings, which are in the ears of your wives, of your sons, and of your daughters, and bring them unto me.
Exodus 32:3	And all the people brake off the golden earrings which were in their ears, and brought them unto Aaron.
Exodus 32:4	And he received them at their hand, and fashioned it with a graving tool, after he had made it a molten calf: and they said, These be thy gods, O Israel, which brought thee up out of the land of Egypt.
Exodus 32:5	And when Aaron saw it, he built an altar before it; and Aaron made proclamation, and said, To morrow is a feast to the LORD.
Exodus 32:6	And they rose up early on the morrow, and offered burnt offerings, and brought peace offerings; and the people sat down to eat and to drink, and rose up to play.
Exodus 32:7	And the LORD said unto Moses, Go, get thee down; for thy people, which thou broughtest out of the land of Egypt, have corrupted themselves:
Exodus 32:8	They have turned aside quickly out of the way which I commanded them: they have made them a molten calf, and have worshipped it, and have sacrificed thereunto, and said, These be thy gods, O Israel, which have brought thee up out of the land of Egypt.
Exodus 32:9	And the LORD said unto Moses, I have seen this people, and, behold, it is a stiffnecked people:
Exodus 32:10	Now therefore let me alone, that my wrath may wax hot against them, and that I may consume them: and I will make of thee a great nation.
Exodus 32:11	And Moses besought the LORD his God, and said, LORD, why doth thy wrath wax hot against thy people, which thou hast brought forth out of the land of Egypt with great power, and with a mighty hand?
Exodus 32:12	Wherefore should the Egyptians speak, and say, For mischief did he bring them out, to slay them in the mountains, and to consume them from the face of the earth? Turn from thy fierce wrath, and repent of this evil against thy people.
Exodus 32:13	Remember Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, thy servants, to whom thou swarest by thine own self, and saidst unto them, I will multiply your seed as the stars of heaven, and all this land that I have spoken of will I give unto your seed, and they shall inherit it for ever.
Exodus 32:14	And the LORD repented of the evil which he thought to do unto his people.
Exodus 32:15	And Moses turned, and went down from the mount, and the two tables of the testimony were in his hand: the tables were written on both their sides; on the one side and on the other were they written.
Exodus 32:16	And the tables were the work of God, and the writing was the writing of God, graven upon the tables.
Exodus 32:17	And when Joshua heard the noise of the people as they shouted, he said unto Moses, There is a noise of war in the camp.
Exodus 32:18	And he said, It is not the voice of them that shout for mastery, neither is it the voice of them that cry for being overcome: but the noise of them that sing do I hear.
Exodus 32:19	And it came to pass, as soon as he came nigh unto the camp, that he saw the calf, and the dancing: and Moses' anger waxed hot, and he cast the tables out of his hands, and brake them beneath the mount.
Exodus 32:20	And he took the calf which they had made, and burnt it in the fire, and ground it to powder, and strewed it upon the water, and made the children of Israel drink of it.
Exodus 32:21	And Moses said unto Aaron, What did this people unto thee, that thou hast brought so great a sin upon them?
Exodus 32:22	And Aaron said, Let not the anger of my lord wax hot: thou knowest the people, that they are set on mischief.
Exodus 32:23	For they said unto me, Make us gods, which shall go before us: for as for this Moses, the man that brought us up out of the land of Egypt, we wot not what is become of him.
Exodus 32:24	And I said unto them, Whosoever hath any gold, let them break it off. So they gave it me: then I cast it into the fire, and there came out this calf.
Exodus 32:25	And when Moses saw that the people were naked; (for Aaron had made them naked unto their shame among their enemies:)
Exodus 32:26	Then Moses stood in the gate of the camp, and said, Who is on the LORD's side? let him come unto me. And all the sons of Levi gathered themselves together unto him.
Exodus 32:27	And he said unto them, Thus saith the LORD God of Israel, Put every man his sword by his side, and go in and out from gate to gate throughout the camp, and slay every man his brother, and every man his companion, and every man his neighbor.
Exodus 32:28	And the children of Levi did according to the word of Moses: and there fell of the people that day about three thousand men.
Exodus 32:29	For Moses had said, Consecrate yourselves today to the LORD, even every man upon his son, and upon his brother; that he may bestow upon you a blessing this day.
Exodus 32:30	And it came to pass on the morrow, that Moses said unto the people, Ye have sinned a great sin: and now I will go up unto the LORD; peradventure I shall make an atonement for your sin.
Exodus 32:31	And Moses returned unto the LORD, and said, Oh, this people have sinned a great sin, and have made them gods of gold.
Exodus 32:32	Yet now, if thou wilt forgive their sin--; and if not, blot me, I pray thee, out of thy book which thou hast written.
Exodus 32:33	And the LORD said unto Moses, Whosoever hath sinned against me, him will I blot out of my book.
Exodus 32:34	Therefore now go, lead the people unto the place of which I have spoken unto thee: behold, mine Angel shall go before thee: nevertheless in the day when I visit I will visit their sin upon them.
Exodus 32:35	And the LORD plagued the people, because they made the calf, which Aaron made.
Exodus 33:1	And the LORD said unto Moses, Depart, and go up hence, thou and the people which thou hast brought up out of the land of Egypt, unto the land which I sware unto Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, saying, Unto thy seed will I give it:
Exodus 33:2	And I will send an angel before thee; and I will drive out the Canaanite, the Amorite, and the Hittite, and the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite:
Exodus 33:3	Unto a land flowing with milk and honey: for I will not go up in the midst of thee; for thou art a stiffnecked people: lest I consume thee in the way.
Exodus 33:4	And when the people heard these evil tidings, they mourned: and no man did put on him his ornaments.
Exodus 33:5	For the LORD had said unto Moses, Say unto the children of Israel, Ye are a stiffnecked people: I will come up into the midst of thee in a moment, and consume thee: therefore now put off thy ornaments from thee, that I may know what to do unto thee.
Exodus 33:6	And the children of Israel stripped themselves of their ornaments by the mount Horeb.
Exodus 33:7	And Moses took the tabernacle, and pitched it without the camp, afar off from the camp, and called it the Tabernacle of the congregation. And it came to pass, that every one which sought the LORD went out unto the tabernacle of the congregation, which was without the camp.
Exodus 33:8	And it came to pass, when Moses went out unto the tabernacle, that all the people rose up, and stood every man at his tent door, and looked after Moses, until he was gone into the tabernacle.
Exodus 33:9	And it came to pass, as Moses entered into the tabernacle, the cloudy pillar descended, and stood at the door of the tabernacle, and the Lord talked with Moses.
Exodus 33:10	And all the people saw the cloudy pillar stand at the tabernacle door: and all the people rose up and worshipped, every man in his tent door.
Exodus 33:11	And the LORD spake unto Moses face to face, as a man speaketh unto his friend. And he turned again into the camp: but his servant Joshua, the son of Nun, a young man, departed not out of the tabernacle.
Exodus 33:12	And Moses said unto the LORD, See, thou sayest unto me, Bring up this people: and thou hast not let me know whom thou wilt send with me. Yet thou hast said, I know thee by name, and thou hast also found grace in my sight.
Exodus 33:13	Now therefore, I pray thee, if I have found grace in thy sight, show me now thy way, that I may know thee, that I may find grace in thy sight: and consider that this nation is thy people.
Exodus 33:14	And he said, My presence shall go with thee, and I will give thee rest.
Exodus 33:15	And he said unto him, If thy presence go not with me, carry us not up hence.
Exodus 33:16	For wherein shall it be known here that I and thy people have found grace in thy sight? is it not in that thou goest with us? so shall we be separated, I and thy people, from all the people that are upon the face of the earth.
Exodus 33:17	And the LORD said unto Moses, I will do this thing also that thou hast spoken: for thou hast found grace in my sight, and I know thee by name.
Exodus 33:18	And he said, I beseech thee, show me thy glory.
Exodus 33:19	And he said, I will make all my goodness pass before thee, and I will proclaim the name of the LORD before thee; and will be gracious to whom I will be gracious, and will show mercy on whom I will show mercy.
Exodus 33:20	And he said, Thou canst not see my face: for there shall no man see me, and live.
Exodus 33:21	And the LORD said, Behold, there is a place by me, and thou shalt stand upon a rock:
Exodus 33:22	And it shall come to pass, while my glory passeth by, that I will put thee in a cleft of the rock, and will cover thee with my hand while I pass by:
Exodus 33:23	And I will take away mine hand, and thou shalt see my back parts: but my face shall not be seen.
Exodus 34:1	And the LORD said unto Moses, Hew thee two tables of stone like unto the first: and I will write upon these tables the words that were in the first tables, which thou brakest.
Exodus 34:2	And be ready in the morning, and come up in the morning unto mount Sinai, and present thyself there to me in the top of the mount.
Exodus 34:3	And no man shall come up with thee, neither let any man be seen throughout all the mount; neither let the flocks nor herds feed before that mount.
Exodus 34:4	And he hewed two tables of stone like unto the first; and Moses rose up early in the morning, and went up unto mount Sinai, as the LORD had commanded him, and took in his hand the two tables of stone.
Exodus 34:5	And the LORD descended in the cloud, and stood with him there, and proclaimed the name of the LORD.
Exodus 34:6	And the LORD passed by before him, and proclaimed, The LORD, The LORD God, merciful and gracious, long-suffering, and abundant in goodness and truth,
Exodus 34:7	Keeping mercy for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin, and that will by no means clear the guilty; visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children, and upon the children's children, unto the third and to the fourth generation.
Exodus 34:8	And Moses made haste, and bowed his head toward the earth, and worshipped.
Exodus 34:9	And he said, If now I have found grace in thy sight, O LORD, let my LORD, I pray thee, go among us; for it is a stiffnecked people; and pardon our iniquity and our sin, and take us for thine inheritance.
Exodus 34:10	And he said, Behold, I make a covenant: before all thy people I will do marvels, such as have not been done in all the earth, nor in any nation: and all the people among which thou art shall see the work of the LORD: for it is a terrible thing that I will do with thee.
Exodus 34:11	Observe thou that which I command thee this day: behold, I drive out before thee the Amorite, and the Canaanite, and the Hittite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite.
Exodus 34:12	Take heed to thyself, lest thou make a covenant with the inhabitants of the land whither thou goest, lest it be for a snare in the midst of thee:
Exodus 34:13	But ye shall destroy their altars, break their images, and cut down their groves:
Exodus 34:14	For thou shalt worship no other god: for the LORD, whose name is Jealous, is a jealous God:
Exodus 34:15	Lest thou make a covenant with the inhabitants of the land, and they go a whoring after their gods, and do sacrifice unto their gods, and one call thee, and thou eat of his sacrifice;
Exodus 34:16	And thou take of their daughters unto thy sons, and their daughters go a whoring after their gods, and make thy sons go a whoring after their gods.
Exodus 34:17	Thou shalt make thee no molten gods.
Exodus 34:18	The feast of unleavened bread shalt thou keep. Seven days thou shalt eat unleavened bread, as I commanded thee, in the time of the month Abib: for in the month Abib thou camest out from Egypt.
Exodus 34:19	All that openeth the matrix is mine; and every firstling among thy cattle, whether ox or sheep, that is male.
Exodus 34:20	But the firstling of an ass thou shalt redeem with a lamb: and if thou redeem him not, then shalt thou break his neck. All the firstborn of thy sons thou shalt redeem. And none shall appear before me empty.
Exodus 34:21	Six days thou shalt work, but on the seventh day thou shalt rest: in earing time and in harvest thou shalt rest.
Exodus 34:22	And thou shalt observe the feast of weeks, of the firstfruits of wheat harvest, and the feast of ingathering at the year's end.
Exodus 34:23	Thrice in the year shall all your men children appear before the LORD God, the God of Israel.
Exodus 34:24	For I will cast out the nations before thee, and enlarge thy borders: neither shall any man desire thy land, when thou shalt go up to appear before the LORD thy God thrice in the year.
Exodus 34:25	Thou shalt not offer the blood of my sacrifice with leaven; neither shall the sacrifice of the feast of the passover be left unto the morning.
Exodus 34:26	The first of the firstfruits of thy land thou shalt bring unto the house of the LORD thy God. Thou shalt not seethe a kid in his mother's milk.
Exodus 34:27	And the LORD said unto Moses, Write thou these words: for after the tenor of these words I have made a covenant with thee and with Israel.
Exodus 34:28	And he was there with the LORD forty days and forty nights; he did neither eat bread, nor drink water. And he wrote upon the tables the words of the covenant, the ten commandments.
Exodus 34:29	And it came to pass, when Moses came down from mount Sinai with the two tables of testimony in Moses' hand, when he came down from the mount, that Moses wist not that the skin of his face shone while he talked with him.
Exodus 34:30	And when Aaron and all the children of Israel saw Moses, behold, the skin of his face shone; and they were afraid to come nigh him.
Exodus 34:31	And Moses called unto them; and Aaron and all the rulers of the congregation returned unto him: and Moses talked with them.
Exodus 34:32	And afterward all the children of Israel came nigh: and he gave them in commandment all that the LORD had spoken with him in mount Sinai.
Exodus 34:33	And till Moses had done speaking with them, he put a vail on his face.
Exodus 34:34	But when Moses went in before the LORD to speak with him, he took the vail off, until he came out. And he came out, and spake unto the children of Israel that which he was commanded.
Exodus 34:35	And the children of Israel saw the face of Moses, that the skin of Moses' face shone: and Moses put the vail upon his face again, until he went in to speak with him.
Exodus 35:1	And Moses gathered all the congregation of the children of Israel together, and said unto them, These are the words which the LORD hath commanded, that ye should do them.
Exodus 35:2	Six days shall work be done, but on the seventh day there shall be to you an holy day, a sabbath of rest to the LORD: whosoever doeth work therein shall be put to death.
Exodus 35:3	Ye shall kindle no fire throughout your habitations upon the sabbath day.
Exodus 35:4	And Moses spake unto all the congregation of the children of Israel, saying, This is the thing which the LORD commanded, saying,
Exodus 35:5	Take ye from among you an offering unto the LORD: whosoever is of a willing heart, let him bring it, an offering of the LORD; gold, and silver, and brass,
Exodus 35:6	And blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine linen, and goats' hair,
Exodus 35:7	And rams' skins dyed red, and badgers' skins, and shittim wood,
Exodus 35:8	And oil for the light, and spices for anointing oil, and for the sweet incense,
Exodus 35:9	And onyx stones, and stones to be set for the ephod, and for the breastplate.
Exodus 35:10	And every wise hearted among you shall come, and make all that the LORD hath commanded;
Exodus 35:11	The tabernacle, his tent, and his covering, his taches, and his boards, his bars, his pillars, and his sockets,
Exodus 35:12	The ark, and the staves thereof, with the mercy seat, and the vail of the covering,
Exodus 35:13	The table, and his staves, and all his vessels, and the showbread,
Exodus 35:14	The candlestick also for the light, and his furniture, and his lamps, with the oil for the light,
Exodus 35:15	And the incense altar, and his staves, and the anointing oil, and the sweet incense, and the hanging for the door at the entering in of the tabernacle,
Exodus 35:16	The altar of burnt offering, with his brazen grate, his staves, and all his vessels, the laver and his foot,
Exodus 35:17	The hangings of the court, his pillars, and their sockets, and the hanging for the door of the court,
Exodus 35:18	The pins of the tabernacle, and the pins of the court, and their cords,
Exodus 35:19	The cloths of service, to do service in the holy place, the holy garments for Aaron the priest, and the garments of his sons, to minister in the priest's office.
Exodus 35:20	And all the congregation of the children of Israel departed from the presence of Moses.
Exodus 35:21	And they came, every one whose heart stirred him up, and every one whom his spirit made willing, and they brought the LORD's offering to the work of the tabernacle of the congregation, and for all his service, and for the holy garments.
Exodus 35:22	And they came, both men and women, as many as were willing hearted, and brought bracelets, and earrings, and rings, and tablets, all jewels of gold: and every man that offered, offered an offering of gold unto the LORD.
Exodus 35:23	And every man, with whom was found blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine linen, and goats' hair, and red skins of rams, and badgers' skins, brought them.
Exodus 35:24	Every one that did offer an offering of silver and brass brought the LORD's offering: and every man, with whom was found shittim wood for any work of the service, brought it.
Exodus 35:25	And all the women that were wise hearted did spin with their hands, and brought that which they had spun, both of blue, and of purple, and of scarlet, and of fine linen.
Exodus 35:26	And all the women whose heart stirred them up in wisdom spun goats' hair.
Exodus 35:27	And the rulers brought onyx stones, and stones to be set, for the ephod, and for the breastplate;
Exodus 35:28	And spice, and oil for the light, and for the anointing oil, and for the sweet incense.
Exodus 35:29	The children of Israel brought a willing offering unto the LORD, every man and woman, whose heart made them willing to bring for all manner of work, which the LORD had commanded to be made by the hand of Moses.
Exodus 35:30	And Moses said unto the children of Israel, See, the LORD hath called by name Bezaleel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah;
Exodus 35:31	And he hath filled him with the spirit of God, in wisdom, in understanding, and in knowledge, and in all manner of workmanship;
Exodus 35:32	And to devise curious works, to work in gold, and in silver, and in brass,
Exodus 35:33	And in the cutting of stones, to set them, and in carving of wood, to make any manner of cunning work.
Exodus 35:34	And he hath put in his heart that he may teach, both he, and Aholiab, the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan.
Exodus 35:35	Them hath he filled with wisdom of heart, to work all manner of work, of the engraver, and of the cunning workman, and of the embroiderer, in blue, and in purple, in scarlet, and in fine linen, and of the weaver, even of them that do any work, and of those that devise cunning work.
Exodus 36:1	Then wrought Bezaleel and Aholiab, and every wise hearted man, in whom the LORD put wisdom and understanding to know how to work all manner of work for the service of the sanctuary, according to all that the LORD had commanded.
Exodus 36:2	And Moses called Bezaleel and Aholiab, and every wise hearted man, in whose heart the LORD had put wisdom, even every one whose heart stirred him up to come unto the work to do it:
Exodus 36:3	And they received of Moses all the offering, which the children of Israel had brought for the work of the service of the sanctuary, to make it withal. And they brought yet unto him free offerings every morning.
Exodus 36:4	And all the wise men, that wrought all the work of the sanctuary, came every man from his work which they made;
Exodus 36:5	And they spake unto Moses, saying, The people bring much more than enough for the service of the work, which the LORD commanded to make.
Exodus 36:6	And Moses gave commandment, and they caused it to be proclaimed throughout the camp, saying, Let neither man nor woman make any more work for the offering of the sanctuary. So the people were restrained from bringing.
Exodus 36:7	For the stuff they had was sufficient for all the work to make it, and too much.
Exodus 36:8	And every wise hearted man among them that wrought the work of the tabernacle made ten curtains of fine twined linen, and blue, and purple, and scarlet: with cherubim of cunning work made he them.
Exodus 36:9	The length of one curtain was twenty and eight cubits, and the breadth of one curtain four cubits: the curtains were all of one size.
Exodus 36:10	And he coupled the five curtains one unto another: and the other five curtains he coupled one unto another.
Exodus 36:11	And he made loops of blue on the edge of one curtain from the selvedge in the coupling: likewise he made in the uttermost side of another curtain, in the coupling of the second.
Exodus 36:12	Fifty loops made he in one curtain, and fifty loops made he in the edge of the curtain which was in the coupling of the second: the loops held one curtain to another.
Exodus 36:13	And he made fifty taches of gold, and coupled the curtains one unto another with the taches: so it became one tabernacle.
Exodus 36:14	And he made curtains of goats' hair for the tent over the tabernacle: eleven curtains he made them.
Exodus 36:15	The length of one curtain was thirty cubits, and four cubits was the breadth of one curtain: the eleven curtains were of one size.
Exodus 36:16	And he coupled five curtains by themselves, and six curtains by themselves.
Exodus 36:17	And he made fifty loops upon the uttermost edge of the curtain in the coupling, and fifty loops made he upon the edge of the curtain which coupleth the second.
Exodus 36:18	And he made fifty taches of brass to couple the tent together, that it might be one.
Exodus 36:19	And he made a covering for the tent of rams' skins dyed red, and a covering of badgers' skins above that.
Exodus 36:20	And he made boards for the tabernacle of shittim wood, standing up.
Exodus 36:21	The length of a board was ten cubits, and the breadth of a board one cubit and a half.
Exodus 36:22	One board had two tenons, equally distant one from another: thus did he make for all the boards of the tabernacle.
Exodus 36:23	And he made boards for the tabernacle; twenty boards for the south side southward:
Exodus 36:24	And forty sockets of silver he made under the twenty boards; two sockets under one board for his two tenons, and two sockets under another board for his two tenons.
Exodus 36:25	And for the other side of the tabernacle, which is toward the north corner, he made twenty boards,
Exodus 36:26	And their forty sockets of silver; two sockets under one board, and two sockets under another board.
Exodus 36:27	And for the sides of the tabernacle westward he made six boards.
Exodus 36:28	And two boards made he for the corners of the tabernacle in the two sides.
Exodus 36:29	And they were coupled beneath, and coupled together at the head thereof, to one ring: thus he did to both of them in both the corners.
Exodus 36:30	And there were eight boards; and their sockets were sixteen sockets of silver, under every board two sockets.
Exodus 36:31	And he made bars of shittim wood; five for the boards of the one side of the tabernacle,
Exodus 36:32	And five bars for the boards of the other side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the boards of the tabernacle for the sides westward.
Exodus 36:33	And he made the middle bar to shoot through the boards from the one end to the other.
Exodus 36:34	And he overlaid the boards with gold, and made their rings of gold to be places for the bars, and overlaid the bars with gold.
Exodus 36:35	And he made a vail of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen: with cherubim made he it of cunning work.
Exodus 36:36	And he made thereunto four pillars of shittim wood, and overlaid them with gold: their hooks were of gold; and he cast for them four sockets of silver.
Exodus 36:37	And he made an hanging for the tabernacle door of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen, of needlework;
Exodus 36:38	And the five pillars of it with their hooks: and he overlaid their chapiters and their fillets with gold: but their five sockets were of brass.
Exodus 37:1	And Bezaleel made the ark of shittim wood: two cubits and a half was the length of it, and a cubit and a half the breadth of it, and a cubit and a half the height of it:
Exodus 37:2	And he overlaid it with pure gold within and without, and made a crown of gold to it round about.
Exodus 37:3	And he cast for it four rings of gold, to be set by the four corners of it; even two rings upon the one side of it, and two rings upon the other side of it.
Exodus 37:4	And he made staves of shittim wood, and overlaid them with gold.
Exodus 37:5	And he put the staves into the rings by the sides of the ark, to bear the ark.
Exodus 37:6	And he made the mercy seat of pure gold: two cubits and a half was the length thereof, and one cubit and a half the breadth thereof.
Exodus 37:7	And he made two cherubim of gold, beaten out of one piece made he them, on the two ends of the mercy seat;
Exodus 37:8	One cherub on the end on this side, and another cherub on the other end on that side: out of the mercy seat made he the cherubim on the two ends thereof.
Exodus 37:9	And the cherubim spread out their wings on high, and covered with their wings over the mercy seat, with their faces one to another; even to the mercy seatward were the faces of the cherubim.
Exodus 37:10	And he made the table of shittim wood: two cubits was the length thereof, and a cubit the breadth thereof, and a cubit and a half the height thereof:
Exodus 37:11	And he overlaid it with pure gold, and made thereunto a crown of gold round about.
Exodus 37:12	Also he made thereunto a border of an handbreadth round about; and made a crown of gold for the border thereof round about.
Exodus 37:13	And he cast for it four rings of gold, and put the rings upon the four corners that were in the four feet thereof.
Exodus 37:14	Over against the border were the rings, the places for the staves to bear the table.
Exodus 37:15	And he made the staves of shittim wood, and overlaid them with gold, to bear the table.
Exodus 37:16	And he made the vessels which were upon the table, his dishes, and his spoons, and his bowls, and his covers to cover withal, of pure gold.
Exodus 37:17	And he made the candlestick of pure gold: of beaten work made he the candlestick; his shaft, and his branch, his bowls, his knops, and his flowers, were of the same:
Exodus 37:18	And six branches going out of the sides thereof; three branches of the candlestick out of the one side thereof, and three branches of the candlestick out of the other side thereof:
Exodus 37:19	Three bowls made after the fashion of almonds in one branch, a knop and a flower; and three bowls made like almonds in another branch, a knop and a flower: so throughout the six branches going out of the candlestick.
Exodus 37:20	And in the candlestick were four bowls made like almonds, his knops, and his flowers:
Exodus 37:21	And a knop under two branches of the same, and a knop under two branches of the same, and a knop under two branches of the same, according to the six branches going out of it.
Exodus 37:22	Their knops and their branches were of the same: all of it was one beaten work of pure gold.
Exodus 37:23	And he made his seven lamps, and his snuffers, and his snuffdishes, of pure gold.
Exodus 37:24	Of a talent of pure gold made he it, and all the vessels thereof.
Exodus 37:25	And he made the incense altar of shittim wood: the length of it was a cubit, and the breadth of it a cubit; it was foursquare; and two cubits was the height of it; the horns thereof were of the same.
Exodus 37:26	And he overlaid it with pure gold, both the top of it, and the sides thereof round about, and the horns of it: also he made unto it a crown of gold round about.
Exodus 37:27	And he made two rings of gold for it under the crown thereof, by the two corners of it, upon the two sides thereof, to be places for the staves to bear it withal.
Exodus 37:28	And he made the staves of shittim wood, and overlaid them with gold.
Exodus 37:29	And he made the holy anointing oil, and the pure incense of sweet spices, according to the work of the apothecary.
Exodus 38:1	And he made the altar of burnt offering of shittim wood: five cubits was the length thereof, and five cubits the breadth thereof; it was foursquare; and three cubits the height thereof.
Exodus 38:2	And he made the horns thereof on the four corners of it; the horns thereof were of the same: and he overlaid it with brass.
Exodus 38:3	And he made all the vessels of the altar, the pots, and the shovels, and the basins, and the fleshhooks, and the firepans: all the vessels thereof made he of brass.
Exodus 38:4	And he made for the altar a brazen grate of network under the compass thereof beneath unto the midst of it.
Exodus 38:5	And he cast four rings for the four ends of the grate of brass, to be places for the staves.
Exodus 38:6	And he made the staves of shittim wood, and overlaid them with brass.
Exodus 38:7	And he put the staves into the rings on the sides of the altar, to bear it withal; he made the altar hollow with boards.
Exodus 38:8	And he made the laver of brass, and the foot of it of brass, of the lookingglasses of the women assembling, which assembled at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.
Exodus 38:9	And he made the court: on the south side southward the hangings of the court were of fine twined linen, an hundred cubits:
Exodus 38:10	Their pillars were twenty, and their brazen sockets twenty; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets were of silver.
Exodus 38:11	And for the north side the hangings were an hundred cubits, their pillars were twenty, and their sockets of brass twenty; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets of silver.
Exodus 38:12	And for the west side were hangings of fifty cubits, their pillars ten, and their sockets ten; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets of silver.
Exodus 38:13	And for the east side eastward fifty cubits.
Exodus 38:14	The hangings of the one side of the gate were fifteen cubits; their pillars three, and their sockets three.
Exodus 38:15	And for the other side of the court gate, on this hand and that hand, were hangings of fifteen cubits; their pillars three, and their sockets three.
Exodus 38:16	All the hangings of the court round about were of fine twined linen.
Exodus 38:17	And the sockets for the pillars were of brass; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets of silver; and the overlaying of their chapiters of silver; and all the pillars of the court were filleted with silver.
Exodus 38:18	And the hanging for the gate of the court was needlework, of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen: and twenty cubits was the length, and the height in the breadth was five cubits, answerable to the hangings of the court.
Exodus 38:19	And their pillars were four, and their sockets of brass four; their hooks of silver, and the overlaying of their chapiters and their fillets of silver.
Exodus 38:20	And all the pins of the tabernacle, and of the court round about, were of brass.
Exodus 38:21	This is the sum of the tabernacle, even of the tabernacle of testimony, as it was counted, according to the commandment of Moses, for the service of the Levites, by the hand of Ithamar, son to Aaron the priest.
Exodus 38:22	And Bezaleel the son Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah, made all that the LORD commanded Moses.
Exodus 38:23	And with him was Aholiab, son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan, an engraver, and a cunning workman, and an embroiderer in blue, and in purple, and in scarlet, and fine linen.
Exodus 38:24	All the gold that was occupied for the work in all the work of the holy place, even the gold of the offering, was twenty and nine talents, and seven hundred and thirty shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary.
Exodus 38:25	And the silver of them that were numbered of the congregation was an hundred talents, and a thousand seven hundred and threescore and fifteen shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary:
Exodus 38:26	A bekah for every man, that is, half a shekel, after the shekel of the sanctuary, for every one that went to be numbered, from twenty years old and upward, for six hundred thousand and three thousand and five hundred and fifty men.
Exodus 38:27	And of the hundred talents of silver were cast the sockets of the sanctuary, and the sockets of the vail; an hundred sockets of the hundred talents, a talent for a socket.
Exodus 38:28	And of the thousand seven hundred seventy and five shekels he made hooks for the pillars, and overlaid their chapiters, and filleted them.|
Exodus 38:29	And the brass of the offering was seventy talents, and two thousand and four hundred shekels.
Exodus 38:30	And therewith he made the sockets to the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and the brazen altar, and the brazen grate for it, and all the vessels of the altar,
Exodus 38:31	And the sockets of the court round about, and the sockets of the court gate, and all the pins of the tabernacle, and all the pins of the court round about.
Exodus 39:1	And of the blue, and purple, and scarlet, they made cloths of service, to do service in the holy place, and made the holy garments for Aaron; as the LORD commanded Moses.
Exodus 39:2	And he made the ephod of gold, blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen.
Exodus 39:3	And they did beat the gold into thin plates, and cut it into wires, to work it in the blue, and in the purple, and in the scarlet, and in the fine linen, with cunning work.
Exodus 39:4	They made shoulderpieces for it, to couple it together: by the two edges was it coupled together.
Exodus 39:5	And the curious girdle of his ephod, that was upon it, was of the same, according to the work thereof; of gold, blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen; as the LORD commanded Moses.
Exodus 39:6	And they wrought onyx stones inclosed in ouches of gold, graven, as signets are graven, with the names of the children of Israel.
Exodus 39:7	And he put them on the shoulders of the ephod, that they should be stones for a memorial to the children of Israel; as the LORD commanded Moses.
Exodus 39:8	And he made the breastplate of cunning work, like the work of the ephod; of gold, blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen.
Exodus 39:9	It was foursquare; they made the breastplate double: a span was the length thereof, and a span the breadth thereof, being doubled.
Exodus 39:10	And they set in it four rows of stones: the first row was a sardius, a topaz, and a carbuncle: this was the first row.
Exodus 39:11	And the second row, an emerald, a sapphire, and a diamond.
Exodus 39:12	And the third row, a ligure, an agate, and an amethyst.
Exodus 39:13	And the fourth row, a beryl, an onyx, and a jasper: they were inclosed in ouches of gold in their inclosings.
Exodus 39:14	And the stones were according to the names of the children of Israel, twelve, according to their names, like the engravings of a signet, every one with his name, according to the twelve tribes.
Exodus 39:15	And they made upon the breastplate chains at the ends, of wreathed work of pure gold.
Exodus 39:16	And they made two ouches of gold, and two gold rings; and put the two rings in the two ends of the breastplate.
Exodus 39:17	And they put the two wreathed chains of gold in the two rings on the ends of the breastplate.
Exodus 39:18	And the two ends of the two wreathed chains they fastened in the two ouches, and put them on the shoulderpieces of the ephod, before it.
Exodus 39:19	And they made two rings of gold, and put them on the two ends of the breastplate, upon the border of it, which was on the side of the ephod inward.
Exodus 39:20	And they made two other golden rings, and put them on the two sides of the ephod underneath, toward the forepart of it, over against the other coupling thereof, above the curious girdle of the ephod.
Exodus 39:21	And they did bind the breastplate by his rings unto the rings of the ephod with a lace of blue, that it might be above the curious girdle of the ephod, and that the breastplate might not be loosed from the ephod; as the LORD commanded Moses.
Exodus 39:22	And he made the robe of the ephod of woven work, all of blue.
Exodus 39:23	And there was an hole in the midst of the robe, as the hole of an habergeon, with a band round about the hole, that it should not rend.
Exodus 39:24	And they made upon the hems of the robe pomegranates of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and twined linen.
Exodus 39:25	And they made bells of pure gold, and put the bells between the pomegranates upon the hem of the robe, round about between the pomegranates;
Exodus 39:26	A bell and a pomegranate, a bell and a pomegranate, round about the hem of the robe to minister in; as the LORD commanded Moses.
Exodus 39:27	And they made coats of fine linen of woven work for Aaron, and for his sons,
Exodus 39:28	And a mitre of fine linen, and goodly bonnets of fine linen, and linen breeches of fine twined linen,
Exodus 39:29	And a girdle of fine twined linen, and blue, and purple, and scarlet, of needlework; as the LORD commanded Moses.
Exodus 39:30	And they made the plate of the holy crown of pure gold, and wrote upon it a writing, like to the engravings of a signet, HOLINESS TO THE LORD.
Exodus 39:31	And they tied unto it a lace of blue, to fasten it on high upon the mitre; as the LORD commanded Moses.
Exodus 39:32	Thus was all the work of the tabernacle of the tent of the congregation finished: and the children of Israel did according to all that the LORD commanded Moses, so did they.
Exodus 39:33	And they brought the tabernacle unto Moses, the tent, and all his furniture, his taches, his boards, his bars, and his pillars, and his sockets,
Exodus 39:34	And the covering of rams' skins dyed red, and the covering of badgers' skins, and the vail of the covering,
Exodus 39:35	The ark of the testimony, and the staves thereof, and the mercy seat,
Exodus 39:36	The table, and all the vessels thereof, and the showbread,
Exodus 39:37	The pure candlestick, with the lamps thereof, even with the lamps to be set in order, and all the vessels thereof, and the oil for light,
Exodus 39:38	And the golden altar, and the anointing oil, and the sweet incense, and the hanging for the tabernacle door,
Exodus 39:39	The brazen altar, and his grate of brass, his staves, and all his vessels, the laver and his foot,
Exodus 39:40	The hangings of the court, his pillars, and his sockets, and the hanging for the court gate, his cords, and his pins, and all the vessels of the service of the tabernacle, for the tent of the congregation,
Exodus 39:41	The cloths of service to do service in the holy place, and the holy garments for Aaron the priest, and his sons' garments, to minister in the priest's office.
Exodus 39:42	According to all that the LORD commanded Moses, so the children of Israel made all the work.
Exodus 39:43	And Moses did look upon all the work, and, behold, they had done it as the LORD had commanded, even so had they done it: and Moses blessed them.
Exodus 40:1	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
Exodus 40:2	On the first day of the first month shalt thou set up the tabernacle of the tent of the congregation.
Exodus 40:3	And thou shalt put therein the ark of the testimony, and cover the ark with the vail.
Exodus 40:4	And thou shalt bring in the table, and set in order the things that are to be set in order upon it; and thou shalt bring in the candlestick, and light the lamps thereof.
Exodus 40:5	And thou shalt set the altar of gold for the incense before the ark of the testimony, and put the hanging of the door to the tabernacle.
Exodus 40:6	And thou shalt set the altar of the burnt offering before the door of the tabernacle of the tent of the congregation.
Exodus 40:7	And thou shalt set the laver between the tent of the congregation and the altar, and shalt put water therein.
Exodus 40:8	And thou shalt set up the court round about, and hang up the hanging at the court gate.
Exodus 40:9	And thou shalt take the anointing oil, and anoint the tabernacle, and all that is therein, and shalt hallow it, and all the vessels thereof: and it shall be holy.
Exodus 40:10	And thou shalt anoint the altar of the burnt offering, and all his vessels, and sanctify the altar: and it shall be an altar most holy.
Exodus 40:11	And thou shalt anoint the laver and his foot, and sanctify it.
Exodus 40:12	And thou shalt bring Aaron and his sons unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and wash them with water.
Exodus 40:13	And thou shalt put upon Aaron the holy garments, and anoint him, and sanctify him; that he may minister unto me in the priest's office.
Exodus 40:14	And thou shalt bring his sons, and clothe them with coats:
Exodus 40:15	And thou shalt anoint them, as thou didst anoint their father, that they may minister unto me in the priest's office: for their anointing shall surely be an everlasting priesthood throughout their generations.
Exodus 40:16	Thus did Moses: according to all that the LORD commanded him, so did he.
Exodus 40:17	And it came to pass in the first month in the second year, on the first day of the month, that the tabernacle was reared up.
Exodus 40:18	And Moses reared up the tabernacle, and fastened his sockets, and set up the boards thereof, and put in the bars thereof, and reared up his pillars.
Exodus 40:19	And he spread abroad the tent over the tabernacle, and put the covering of the tent above upon it; as the LORD commanded Moses.
Exodus 40:20	And he took and put the testimony into the ark, and set the staves on the ark, and put the mercy seat above upon the ark:
Exodus 40:21	And he brought the ark into the tabernacle, and set up the vail of the covering, and covered the ark of the testimony; as the LORD commanded Moses.
Exodus 40:22	And he put the table in the tent of the congregation, upon the side of the tabernacle northward, without the vail.
Exodus 40:23	And he set the bread in order upon it before the LORD; as the LORD had commanded Moses.
Exodus 40:24	And he put the candlestick in the tent of the congregation, over against the table, on the side of the tabernacle southward.
Exodus 40:25	And he lighted the lamps before the LORD; as the LORD commanded Moses.
Exodus 40:26	And he put the golden altar in the tent of the congregation before the vail:
Exodus 40:27	And he burnt sweet incense thereon; as the LORD commanded Moses.
Exodus 40:28	And he set up the hanging at the door of the tabernacle.
Exodus 40:29	And he put the altar of burnt offering by the door of the tabernacle of the tent of the congregation, and offered upon it the burnt offering and the meat offering; as the LORD commanded Moses.
Exodus 40:30	And he set the laver between the tent of the congregation and the altar, and put water there, to wash withal.
Exodus 40:31	And Moses and Aaron and his sons washed their hands and their feet thereat:
Exodus 40:32	When they went into the tent of the congregation, and when they came near unto the altar, they washed; as the LORD commanded Moses.
Exodus 40:33	And he reared up the court round about the tabernacle and the altar, and set up the hanging of the court gate. So Moses finished the work.
Exodus 40:34	Then a cloud covered the tent of the congregation, and the glory of the LORD filled the tabernacle.
Exodus 40:35	And Moses was not able to enter into the tent of the congregation, because the cloud abode thereon, and the glory of the LORD filled the tabernacle.
Exodus 40:36	And when the cloud was taken up from over the tabernacle, the children of Israel went onward in all their journeys:
Exodus 40:37	But if the cloud were not taken up, then they journeyed not till the day that it was taken up.
Exodus 40:38	For the cloud of the LORD was upon the tabernacle by day, and fire was on it by night, in the sight of all the house of Israel, throughout all their journeys.
Leviticus 1:1	And the LORD called unto Moses, and spake unto him out of the tabernacle of the congregation, saying,
Leviticus 1:2	Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, If any man of you bring an offering unto the LORD, ye shall bring your offering of the cattle, even of the herd, and of the flock.
Leviticus 1:3	If his offering be a burnt sacrifice of the herd, let him offer a male without blemish: he shall offer it of his own voluntary will at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation before the LORD.
Leviticus 1:4	And he shall put his hand upon the head of the burnt offering; and it shall be accepted for him to make atonement for him.
Leviticus 1:5	And he shall kill the bullock before the LORD: and the priests, Aaron's sons, shall bring the blood, and sprinkle the blood round about upon the altar that is by the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.
Leviticus 1:6	And he shall flay the burnt offering, and cut it into his pieces.
Leviticus 1:7	And the sons of Aaron the priest shall put fire upon the altar, and lay the wood in order upon the fire:
Leviticus 1:8	And the priests, Aaron's sons, shall lay the parts, the head, and the fat, in order upon the wood that is on the fire which is upon the altar:
Leviticus 1:9	But his inwards and his legs shall he wash in water: and the priest shall burn all on the altar, to be a burnt sacrifice, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor unto the LORD.
Leviticus 1:10	And if his offering be of the flocks, namely, of the sheep, or of the goats, for a burnt sacrifice; he shall bring it a male without blemish.
Leviticus 1:11	And he shall kill it on the side of the altar northward before the LORD: and the priests, Aaron's sons, shall sprinkle his blood round about upon the altar.
Leviticus 1:12	And he shall cut it into his pieces, with his head and his fat: and the priest shall lay them in order on the wood that is on the fire which is upon the altar:
Leviticus 1:13	But he shall wash the inwards and the legs with water: and the priest shall bring it all, and burn it upon the altar: it is a burnt sacrifice, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor unto the LORD.
Leviticus 1:14	And if the burnt sacrifice for his offering to the LORD be of fowls, then he shall bring his offering of turtledoves, or of young pigeons.
Leviticus 1:15	And the priest shall bring it unto the altar, and wring off his head, and burn it on the altar; and the blood thereof shall be wrung out at the side of the altar:
Leviticus 1:16	And he shall pluck away his crop with his feathers, and cast it beside the altar on the east part, by the place of the ashes:
Leviticus 1:17	And he shall cleave it with the wings thereof, but shall not divide it asunder: and the priest shall burn it upon the altar, upon the wood that is upon the fire: it is a burnt sacrifice, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor unto the LORD.
Leviticus 2:1	And when any will offer a meat offering unto the LORD, his offering shall be of fine flour; and he shall pour oil upon it, and put frankincense thereon:
Leviticus 2:2	And he shall bring it to Aaron's sons the priests: and he shall take thereout his handful of the flour thereof, and of the oil thereof, with all the frankincense thereof; and the priest shall burn the memorial of it upon the altar, to be an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor unto the LORD:
Leviticus 2:3	And the remnant of the meat offering shall be Aaron's and his sons': it is a thing most holy of the offerings of the LORD made by fire.
Leviticus 2:4	And if thou bring an oblation of a meat offering baked in the oven, it shall be unleavened cakes of fine flour mingled with oil, or unleavened wafers anointed with oil.
Leviticus 2:5	And if thy oblation be a meat offering baked in a pan, it shall be of fine flour unleavened, mingled with oil.
Leviticus 2:6	Thou shalt part it in pieces, and pour oil thereon: it is a meat offering.
Leviticus 2:7	And if thy oblation be a meat offering baked in the frying pan, it shall be made of fine flour with oil.
Leviticus 2:8	And thou shalt bring the meat offering that is made of these things unto the LORD: and when it is presented unto the priest, he shall bring it unto the altar.
Leviticus 2:9	And the priest shall take from the meat offering a memorial thereof, and shall burn it upon the altar: it is an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor unto the LORD.
Leviticus 2:10	And that which is left of the meat offering shall be Aaron's and his sons': it is a thing most holy of the offerings of the LORD made by fire.
Leviticus 2:11	No meat offering, which ye shall bring unto the LORD, shall be made with leaven: for ye shall burn no leaven, nor any honey, in any offering of the LORD made by fire.
Leviticus 2:12	As for the oblation of the firstfruits, ye shall offer them unto the LORD: but they shall not be burnt on the altar for a sweet savor.
Leviticus 2:13	And every oblation of thy meat offering shalt thou season with salt; neither shalt thou suffer the salt of the covenant of thy God to be lacking from thy meat offering: with all thine offerings thou shalt offer salt.
Leviticus 2:14	And if thou offer a meat offering of thy firstfruits unto the LORD, thou shalt offer for the meat offering of thy firstfruits green ears of corn dried by the fire, even corn beaten out of full ears.
Leviticus 2:15	And thou shalt put oil upon it, and lay frankincense thereon: it is a meat offering.
Leviticus 2:16	And the priest shall burn the memorial of it, part of the beaten corn thereof, and part of the oil thereof, with all the frankincense thereof: it is an offering made by fire unto the LORD.
Leviticus 3:1	And if his oblation be a sacrifice of peace offering, if he offer it of the herd; whether it be a male or female, he shall offer it without blemish before the LORD.
Leviticus 3:2	And he shall lay his hand upon the head of his offering, and kill it at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation: and Aaron's sons the priests shall sprinkle the blood upon the altar round about.
Leviticus 3:3	And he shall offer of the sacrifice of the peace offering an offering made by fire unto the LORD; the fat that covereth the inwards, and all the fat that is upon the inwards,
Leviticus 3:4	And the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is by the flanks, and the caul above the liver, with the kidneys, it shall he take away.
Leviticus 3:5	And Aaron's sons shall burn it on the altar upon the burnt sacrifice, which is upon the wood that is on the fire: it is an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor unto the LORD.
Leviticus 3:6	And if his offering for a sacrifice of peace offering unto the LORD be of the flock; male or female, he shall offer it without blemish.
Leviticus 3:7	If he offer a lamb for his offering, then shall he offer it before the LORD.
Leviticus 3:8	And he shall lay his hand upon the head of his offering, and kill it before the tabernacle of the congregation: and Aaron's sons shall sprinkle the blood thereof round about upon the altar.
Leviticus 3:9	And he shall offer of the sacrifice of the peace offering an offering made by fire unto the LORD; the fat thereof, and the whole rump, it shall he take off hard by the backbone; and the fat that covereth the inwards, and all the fat that is upon the inwards,
Leviticus 3:10	And the two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, which is by the flanks, and the caul above the liver, with the kidneys, it shall he take away.
Leviticus 3:11	And the priest shall burn it upon the altar: it is the food of the offering made by fire unto the LORD.
Leviticus 3:12	And if his offering be a goat, then he shall offer it before the LORD.
Leviticus 3:13	And he shall lay his hand upon the head of it, and kill it before the tabernacle of the congregation: and the sons of Aaron shall sprinkle the blood thereof upon the altar round about.
Leviticus 3:14	And he shall offer thereof his offering, even an offering made by fire unto the LORD; the fat that covereth the inwards, and all the fat that is upon the inwards,
Leviticus 3:15	And the two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, which is by the flanks, and the caul above the liver, with the kidneys, it shall he take away.
Leviticus 3:16	And the priest shall burn them upon the altar: it is the food of the offering made by fire for a sweet savor: all the fat is the LORD's.
Leviticus 3:17	It shall be a perpetual statute for your generations throughout all your dwellings, that ye eat neither fat nor blood.
Leviticus 4:1	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
Leviticus 4:2	Speak unto the children of Israel, saying, If a soul shall sin through ignorance against any of the commandments of the LORD concerning things which ought not to be done, and shall do against any of them:
Leviticus 4:3	If the priest that is anointed do sin according to the sin of the people; then let him bring for his sin, which he hath sinned, a young bullock without blemish unto the LORD for a sin offering.
Leviticus 4:4	And he shall bring the bullock unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation before the LORD; and shall lay his hand upon the bullock's head, and kill the bullock before the LORD.
Leviticus 4:5	And the priest that is anointed shall take of the bullock's blood, and bring it to the tabernacle of the congregation:
Leviticus 4:6	And the priest shall dip his finger in the blood, and sprinkle of the blood seven times before the LORD, before the vail of the sanctuary.
Leviticus 4:7	And the priest shall put some of the blood upon the horns of the altar of sweet incense before the LORD, which is in the tabernacle of the congregation; and shall pour all the blood of the bullock at the bottom of the altar of the burnt offering, which is at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.
Leviticus 4:8	And he shall take off from it all the fat of the bullock for the sin offering; the fat that covereth the inwards, and all the fat that is upon the inwards,
Leviticus 4:9	And the two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, which is by the flanks, and the caul above the liver, with the kidneys, it shall he take away,
Leviticus 4:10	As it was taken off from the bullock of the sacrifice of peace offerings: and the priest shall burn them upon the altar of the burnt offering.
Leviticus 4:11	And the skin of the bullock, and all his flesh, with his head, and with his legs, and his inwards, and his dung,
Leviticus 4:12	Even the whole bullock shall he carry forth without the camp unto a clean place, where the ashes are poured out, and burn him on the wood with fire: where the ashes are poured out shall he be burnt.
Leviticus 4:13	And if the whole congregation of Israel sin through ignorance, and the thing be hid from the eyes of the assembly, and they have done somewhat against any of the commandments of the LORD concerning things which should not be done, and are guilty;
Leviticus 4:14	When the sin, which they have sinned against it, is known, then the congregation shall offer a young bullock for the sin, and bring him before the tabernacle of the congregation.
Leviticus 4:15	And the elders of the congregation shall lay their hands upon the head of the bullock before the LORD: and the bullock shall be killed before the LORD.
Leviticus 4:16	And the priest that is anointed shall bring of the bullock's blood to the tabernacle of the congregation:
Leviticus 4:17	And the priest shall dip his finger in some of the blood, and sprinkle it seven times before the LORD, even before the vail.
Leviticus 4:18	And he shall put some of the blood upon the horns of the altar which is before the LORD, that is in the tabernacle of the congregation, and shall pour out all the blood at the bottom of the altar of the burnt offering, which is at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.
Leviticus 4:19	And he shall take all his fat from him, and burn it upon the altar.
Leviticus 4:20	And he shall do with the bullock as he did with the bullock for a sin offering, so shall he do with this: and the priest shall make an atonement for them, and it shall be forgiven them.
Leviticus 4:21	And he shall carry forth the bullock without the camp, and burn him as he burned the first bullock: it is a sin offering for the congregation.
Leviticus 4:22	When a ruler hath sinned, and done somewhat through ignorance against any of the commandments of the LORD his God concerning things which should not be done, and is guilty;
Leviticus 4:23	Or if his sin, wherein he hath sinned, come to his knowledge; he shall bring his offering, a kid of the goats, a male without blemish:
Leviticus 4:24	And he shall lay his hand upon the head of the goat, and kill it in the place where they kill the burnt offering before the LORD: it is a sin offering.
Leviticus 4:25	And the priest shall take of the blood of the sin offering with his finger, and put it upon the horns of the altar of burnt offering, and shall pour out his blood at the bottom of the altar of burnt offering.
Leviticus 4:26	And he shall burn all his fat upon the altar, as the fat of the sacrifice of peace offerings: and the priest shall make an atonement for him as concerning his sin, and it shall be forgiven him.
Leviticus 4:27	And if any one of the common people sin through ignorance, while he doeth somewhat against any of the commandments of the LORD concerning things which ought not to be done, and be guilty;
Leviticus 4:28	Or if his sin, which he hath sinned, come to his knowledge: then he shall bring his offering, a kid of the goats, a female without blemish, for his sin which he hath sinned.
Leviticus 4:29	And he shall lay his hand upon the head of the sin offering, and slay the sin offering in the place of the burnt offering.
Leviticus 4:30	And the priest shall take of the blood thereof with his finger, and put it upon the horns of the altar of burnt offering, and shall pour out all the blood thereof at the bottom of the altar.
Leviticus 4:31	And he shall take away all the fat thereof, as the fat is taken away from off the sacrifice of peace offerings; and the priest shall burn it upon the altar for a sweet savor unto the LORD; and the priest shall make an atonement for him, and it shall be forgiven him.
Leviticus 4:32	And if he bring a lamb for a sin offering, he shall bring it a female without blemish.
Leviticus 4:33	And he shall lay his hand upon the head of the sin offering, and slay it for a sin offering in the place where they kill the burnt offering.
Leviticus 4:34	And the priest shall take of the blood of the sin offering with his finger, and put it upon the horns of the altar of burnt offering, and shall pour out all the blood thereof at the bottom of the altar:
Leviticus 4:35	And he shall take away all the fat thereof, as the fat of the lamb is taken away from the sacrifice of the peace offerings; and the priest shall burn them upon the altar, according to the offerings made by fire unto the LORD: and the priest shall make an atonement for his sin that he hath committed, and it shall be forgiven him.
Leviticus 5:1	And if a soul sin, and hear the voice of swearing, and is a witness, whether he hath seen or known of it; if he do not utter it, then he shall bear his iniquity.
Leviticus 5:2	Or if a soul touch any unclean thing, whether it be a carcass of an unclean beast, or a carcass of unclean cattle, or the carcass of unclean creeping things, and if it be hidden from him; he also shall be unclean, and guilty.
Leviticus 5:3	Or if he touch the uncleanness of man, whatsoever uncleanness it be that a man shall be defiled withal, and it be hid from him; when he knoweth of it, then he shall be guilty.
Leviticus 5:4	Or if a soul swear, pronouncing with his lips to do evil, or to do good, whatsoever it be that a man shall pronounce with an oath, and it be hid from him; when he knoweth of it, then he shall be guilty in one of these.
Leviticus 5:5	And it shall be, when he shall be guilty in one of these things, that he shall confess that he hath sinned in that thing:
Leviticus 5:6	And he shall bring his trespass offering unto the LORD for his sin which he hath sinned, a female from the flock, a lamb or a kid of the goats, for a sin offering; and the priest shall make an atonement for him concerning his sin.
Leviticus 5:7	And if he be not able to bring a lamb, then he shall bring for his trespass, which he hath committed, two turtledoves, or two young pigeons, unto the LORD; one for a sin offering, and the other for a burnt offering.
Leviticus 5:8	And he shall bring them unto the priest, who shall offer that which is for the sin offering first, and wring off his head from his neck, but shall not divide it asunder:
Leviticus 5:9	And he shall sprinkle of the blood of the sin offering upon the side of the altar; and the rest of the blood shall be wrung out at the bottom of the altar: it is a sin offering.
Leviticus 5:10	And he shall offer the second for a burnt offering, according to the manner: and the priest shall make an atonement for him for his sin which he hath sinned, and it shall be forgiven him.
Leviticus 5:11	But if he be not able to bring two turtledoves, or two young pigeons, then he that sinned shall bring for his offering the tenth part of an ephah of fine flour for a sin offering; he shall put no oil upon it, neither shall he put any frankincense thereon: for it is a sin offering.
Leviticus 5:12	Then shall he bring it to the priest, and the priest shall take his handful of it, even a memorial thereof, and burn it on the altar, according to the offerings made by fire unto the LORD: it is a sin offering.
Leviticus 5:13	And the priest shall make an atonement for him as touching his sin that he hath sinned in one of these, and it shall be forgiven him: and the remnant shall be the priest's, as a meat offering.
Leviticus 5:14	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
Leviticus 5:15	If a soul commit a trespass, and sin through ignorance, in the holy things of the LORD; then he shall bring for his trespass unto the LORD a ram without blemish out of the flocks, with thy estimation by shekels of silver, after the shekel of the sanctuary, for a trespass offering.
Leviticus 5:16	And he shall make amends for the harm that he hath done in the holy thing, and shall add the fifth part thereto, and give it unto the priest: and the priest shall make an atonement for him with the ram of the trespass offering, and it shall be forgiven him.
Leviticus 5:17	And if a soul sin, and commit any of these things which are forbidden to be done by the commandments of the LORD; though he wist it not, yet is he guilty, and shall bear his iniquity.
Leviticus 5:18	And he shall bring a ram without blemish out of the flock, with thy estimation, for a trespass offering, unto the priest: and the priest shall make an atonement for him concerning his ignorance wherein he erred and wist it not, and it shall be forgiven him.
Leviticus 5:19	It is a trespass offering: he hath certainly trespassed against the LORD.
Leviticus 6:1	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
Leviticus 6:2	If a soul sin, and commit a trespass against the LORD, and lie unto his neighbor in that which was delivered him to keep, or in fellowship, or in a thing taken away by violence, or hath deceived his neighbor;
Leviticus 6:3	Or have found that which was lost, and lieth concerning it, and sweareth falsely; in any of all these that a man doeth, sinning therein:
Leviticus 6:4	Then it shall be, because he hath sinned, and is guilty, that he shall restore that which he took violently away, or the thing which he hath deceitfully gotten, or that which was delivered him to keep, or the lost thing which he found,
Leviticus 6:5	Or all that about which he hath sworn falsely; he shall even restore it in the principal, and shall add the fifth part more thereto, and give it unto him to whom it appertaineth, in the day of his trespass offering.
Leviticus 6:6	And he shall bring his trespass offering unto the LORD, a ram without blemish out of the flock, with thy estimation, for a trespass offering, unto the priest:
Leviticus 6:7	And the priest shall make an atonement for him before the LORD: and it shall be forgiven him for any thing of all that he hath done in trespassing therein.
Leviticus 6:8	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
Leviticus 6:9	Command Aaron and his sons, saying, This is the law of the burnt offering: It is the burnt offering, because of the burning upon the altar all night unto the morning, and the fire of the altar shall be burning in it.
Leviticus 6:10	And the priest shall put on his linen garment, and his linen breeches shall he put upon his flesh, and take up the ashes which the fire hath consumed with the burnt offering on the altar, and he shall put them beside the altar.
Leviticus 6:11	And he shall put off his garments, and put on other garments, and carry forth the ashes without the camp unto a clean place.
Leviticus 6:12	And the fire upon the altar shall be burning in it; it shall not be put out: and the priest shall burn wood on it every morning, and lay the burnt offering in order upon it; and he shall burn thereon the fat of the peace offerings.
Leviticus 6:13	The fire shall ever be burning upon the altar; it shall never go out.
Leviticus 6:14	And this is the law of the meat offering: the sons of Aaron shall offer it before the LORD, before the altar.
Leviticus 6:15	And he shall take of it his handful, of the flour of the meat offering, and of the oil thereof, and all the frankincense which is upon the meat offering, and shall burn it upon the altar for a sweet savor, even the memorial of it, unto the LORD.
Leviticus 6:16	And the remainder thereof shall Aaron and his sons eat: with unleavened bread shall it be eaten in the holy place; in the court of the tabernacle of the congregation they shall eat it.
Leviticus 6:17	It shall not be baked with leaven. I have given it unto them for their portion of my offerings made by fire; it is most holy, as is the sin offering, and as the trespass offering.
Leviticus 6:18	All the males among the children of Aaron shall eat of it. It shall be a statute for ever in your generations concerning the offerings of the LORD made by fire: every one that toucheth them shall be holy.
Leviticus 6:19	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
Leviticus 6:20	This is the offering of Aaron and of his sons, which they shall offer unto the LORD in the day when he is anointed; the tenth part of an ephah of fine flour for a meat offering perpetual, half of it in the morning, and half thereof at night.
Leviticus 6:21	In a pan it shall be made with oil; and when it is baked, thou shalt bring it in: and the baked pieces of the meat offering shalt thou offer for a sweet savor unto the LORD.
Leviticus 6:22	And the priest of his sons that is anointed in his stead shall offer it: it is a statute for ever unto the LORD; it shall be wholly burnt.
Leviticus 6:23	For every meat offering for the priest shall be wholly burnt: it shall not be eaten.
Leviticus 6:24	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
Leviticus 6:25	Speak unto Aaron and to his sons, saying, This is the law of the sin offering: In the place where the burnt offering is killed shall the sin offering be killed before the LORD: it is most holy.
Leviticus 6:26	The priest that offereth it for sin shall eat it: in the holy place shall it be eaten, in the court of the tabernacle of the congregation.
Leviticus 6:27	Whatsoever shall touch the flesh thereof shall be holy: and when there is sprinkled of the blood thereof upon any garment, thou shalt wash that whereon it was sprinkled in the holy place.
Leviticus 6:28	But the earthen vessel wherein it is sodden shall be broken: and if it be sodden in a brazen pot, it shall be both scoured, and rinsed in water.
Leviticus 6:29	All the males among the priests shall eat thereof: it is most holy.
Leviticus 6:30	And no sin offering, whereof any of the blood is brought into the tabernacle of the congregation to reconcile withal in the holy place, shall be eaten: it shall be burnt in the fire.
Leviticus 7:1	Likewise this is the law of the trespass offering: it is most holy.
Leviticus 7:2	In the place where they kill the burnt offering shall they kill the trespass offering: and the blood thereof shall he sprinkle round about upon the altar.
Leviticus 7:3	And he shall offer of it all the fat thereof; the rump, and the fat that covereth the inwards,
Leviticus 7:4	And the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is by the flanks, and the caul that is above the liver, with the kidneys, it shall he take away:
Leviticus 7:5	And the priest shall burn them upon the altar for an offering made by fire unto the LORD: it is a trespass offering.
Leviticus 7:6	Every male among the priests shall eat thereof: it shall be eaten in the holy place: it is most holy.
Leviticus 7:7	As the sin offering is, so is the trespass offering: there is one law for them: the priest that maketh atonement therewith shall have it.
Leviticus 7:8	And the priest that offereth any man's burnt offering, even the priest shall have to himself the skin of the burnt offering which he hath offered.
Leviticus 7:9	And all the meat offering that is baked in the oven, and all that is dressed in the frying pan, and in the pan, shall be the priest's that offereth it.
Leviticus 7:10	And every meat offering, mingled with oil, and dry, shall all the sons of Aaron have, one as much as another.
Leviticus 7:11	And this is the law of the sacrifice of peace offerings, which he shall offer unto the LORD.
Leviticus 7:12	If he offer it for a thanksgiving, then he shall offer with the sacrifice of thanksgiving unleavened cakes mingled with oil, and unleavened wafers anointed with oil, and cakes mingled with oil, of fine flour, fried.
Leviticus 7:13	Besides the cakes, he shall offer for his offering leavened bread with the sacrifice of thanksgiving of his peace offerings.
Leviticus 7:14	And of it he shall offer one out of the whole oblation for an heave offering unto the LORD, and it shall be the priest's that sprinkleth the blood of the peace offerings.
Leviticus 7:15	And the flesh of the sacrifice of his peace offerings for thanksgiving shall be eaten the same day that it is offered; he shall not leave any of it until the morning.
Leviticus 7:16	But if the sacrifice of his offering be a vow, or a voluntary offering, it shall be eaten the same day that he offereth his sacrifice: and on the morrow also the remainder of it shall be eaten:
Leviticus 7:17	But the remainder of the flesh of the sacrifice on the third day shall be burnt with fire.
Leviticus 7:18	And if any of the flesh of the sacrifice of his peace offerings be eaten at all on the third day, it shall not be accepted, neither shall it be imputed unto him that offereth it: it shall be an abomination, and the soul that eateth of it shall bear his iniquity.
Leviticus 7:19	And the flesh that toucheth any unclean thing shall not be eaten; it shall be burnt with fire: and as for the flesh, all that be clean shall eat thereof.
Leviticus 7:20	But the soul that eateth of the flesh of the sacrifice of peace offerings, that pertain unto the LORD, having his uncleanness upon him, even that soul shall be cut off from his people.
Leviticus 7:21	Moreover the soul that shall touch any unclean thing, as the uncleanness of man, or any unclean beast, or any abominable unclean thing, and eat of the flesh of the sacrifice of peace offerings, which pertain unto the LORD, even that soul shall be cut off from his people.
Leviticus 7:22	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
Leviticus 7:23	Speak unto the children of Israel, saying, Ye shall eat no manner of fat, of ox, or of sheep, or of goat.
Leviticus 7:24	And the fat of the beast that dieth of itself, and the fat of that which is torn with beasts, may be used in any other use: but ye shall in no wise eat of it.
Leviticus 7:25	For whosoever eateth the fat of the beast, of which men offer an offering made by fire unto the LORD, even the soul that eateth it shall be cut off from his people.
Leviticus 7:26	Moreover ye shall eat no manner of blood, whether it be of fowl or of beast, in any of your dwellings.
Leviticus 7:27	Whatsoever soul it be that eateth any manner of blood, even that soul shall be cut off from his people.
Leviticus 7:28	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
Leviticus 7:29	Speak unto the children of Israel, saying, He that offereth the sacrifice of his peace offerings unto the LORD shall bring his oblation unto the LORD of the sacrifice of his peace offerings.
Leviticus 7:30	His own hands shall bring the offerings of the LORD made by fire, the fat with the breast, it shall he bring, that the breast may be waved for a wave offering before the LORD.
Leviticus 7:31	And the priest shall burn the fat upon the altar: but the breast shall be Aaron's and his sons'.
Leviticus 7:32	And the right shoulder shall ye give unto the priest for an heave offering of the sacrifices of your peace offerings.
Leviticus 7:33	He among the sons of Aaron, that offereth the blood of the peace offerings, and the fat, shall have the right shoulder for his part.
Leviticus 7:34	For the wave breast and the heave shoulder have I taken of the children of Israel from off the sacrifices of their peace offerings, and have given them unto Aaron the priest and unto his sons by a statute for ever from among the children of Israel.
Leviticus 7:35	This is the portion of the anointing of Aaron, and of the anointing of his sons, out of the offerings of the LORD made by fire, in the day when he presented them to minister unto the LORD in the priest's office;
Leviticus 7:36	Which the LORD commanded to be given them of the children of Israel, in the day that he anointed them, by a statute for ever throughout their generations.
Leviticus 7:37	This is the law of the burnt offering, of the meat offering, and of the sin offering, and of the trespass offering, and of the consecrations, and of the sacrifice of the peace offerings;
Leviticus 7:38	Which the LORD commanded Moses in mount Sinai, in the day that he commanded the children of Israel to offer their oblations unto the LORD, in the wilderness of Sinai.
Leviticus 8:1	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
Leviticus 8:2	Take Aaron and his sons with him, and the garments, and the anointing oil, and a bullock for the sin offering, and two rams, and a basket of unleavened bread;
Leviticus 8:3	And gather thou all the congregation together unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.
Leviticus 8:4	And Moses did as the LORD commanded him; and the assembly was gathered together unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.
Leviticus 8:5	And Moses said unto the congregation, This is the thing which the LORD commanded to be done.
Leviticus 8:6	And Moses brought Aaron and his sons, and washed them with water.
Leviticus 8:7	And he put upon him the coat, and girded him with the girdle, and clothed him with the robe, and put the ephod upon him, and he girded him with the curious girdle of the ephod, and bound it unto him therewith.
Leviticus 8:8	And he put the breastplate upon him: also he put in the breastplate the Urim and the Thummim.
Leviticus 8:9	And he put the mitre upon his head; also upon the mitre, even upon his forefront, did he put the golden plate, the holy crown; as the LORD commanded Moses.
Leviticus 8:10	And Moses took the anointing oil, and anointed the tabernacle and all that was therein, and sanctified them.
Leviticus 8:11	And he sprinkled thereof upon the altar seven times, and anointed the altar and all his vessels, both the laver and his foot, to sanctify them.
Leviticus 8:12	And he poured of the anointing oil upon Aaron's head, and anointed him, to sanctify him.
Leviticus 8:13	And Moses brought Aaron's sons, and put coats upon them, and girded them with girdles, and put bonnets upon them; as the LORD commanded Moses.
Leviticus 8:14	And he brought the bullock for the sin offering: and Aaron and his sons laid their hands upon the head of the bullock for the sin offering.
Leviticus 8:15	And he slew it; and Moses took the blood, and put it upon the horns of the altar round about with his finger, and purified the altar, and poured the blood at the bottom of the altar, and sanctified it, to make reconciliation upon it.
Leviticus 8:16	And he took all the fat that was upon the inwards, and the caul above the liver, and the two kidneys, and their fat, and Moses burned it upon the altar.
Leviticus 8:17	But the bullock, and his hide, his flesh, and his dung, he burnt with fire without the camp; as the LORD commanded Moses.
Leviticus 8:18	And he brought the ram for the burnt offering: and Aaron and his sons laid their hands upon the head of the ram.
Leviticus 8:19	And he killed it; and Moses sprinkled the blood upon the altar round about.
Leviticus 8:20	And he cut the ram into pieces; and Moses burnt the head, and the pieces, and the fat.
Leviticus 8:21	And he washed the inwards and the legs in water; and Moses burnt the whole ram upon the altar: it was a burnt sacrifice for a sweet savor, and an offering made by fire unto the LORD; as the LORD commanded Moses.
Leviticus 8:22	And he brought the other ram, the ram of consecration: and Aaron and his sons laid their hands upon the head of the ram.
Leviticus 8:23	And he slew it; and Moses took of the blood of it, and put it upon the tip of Aaron's right ear, and upon the thumb of his right hand, and upon the great toe of his right foot.
Leviticus 8:24	And he brought Aaron's sons, and Moses put of the blood upon the tip of their right ear, and upon the thumbs of their right hands, and upon the great toes of their right feet: and Moses sprinkled the blood upon the altar round about.
Leviticus 8:25	And he took the fat, and the rump, and all the fat that was upon the inwards, and the caul above the liver, and the two kidneys, and their fat, and the right shoulder:
Leviticus 8:26	And out of the basket of unleavened bread, that was before the LORD, he took one unleavened cake, and a cake of oiled bread, and one wafer, and put them on the fat, and upon the right shoulder:
Leviticus 8:27	And he put all upon Aaron's hands, and upon his sons' hands, and waved them for a wave offering before the LORD.
Leviticus 8:28	And Moses took them from off their hands, and burnt them on the altar upon the burnt offering: they were consecrations for a sweet savor: it is an offering made by fire unto the LORD.
Leviticus 8:29	And Moses took the breast, and waved it for a wave offering before the LORD: for of the ram of consecration it was Moses' part; as the LORD commanded Moses.
Leviticus 8:30	And Moses took of the anointing oil, and of the blood which was upon the altar, and sprinkled it upon Aaron, and upon his garments, and upon his sons, and upon his sons' garments with him; and sanctified Aaron, and his garments, and his sons, and his sons' garments with him.
Leviticus 8:31	And Moses said unto Aaron and to his sons, Boil the flesh at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation: and there eat it with the bread that is in the basket of consecrations, as I commanded, saying, Aaron and his sons shall eat it.
Leviticus 8:32	And that which remaineth of the flesh and of the bread shall ye burn with fire.
Leviticus 8:33	And ye shall not go out of the door of the tabernacle of the congregation in seven days, until the days of your consecration be at an end: for seven days shall he consecrate you.
Leviticus 8:34	As he hath done this day, so the LORD hath commanded to do, to make an atonement for you.
Leviticus 8:35	Therefore shall ye abide at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation day and night seven days, and keep the charge of the LORD, that ye die not: for so I am commanded.
Leviticus 8:36	So Aaron and his sons did all things which the LORD commanded by the hand of Moses.
Leviticus 9:1	And it came to pass on the eighth day, that Moses called Aaron and his sons, and the elders of Israel;
Leviticus 9:2	And he said unto Aaron, Take thee a young calf for a sin offering, and a ram for a burnt offering, without blemish, and offer them before the LORD.
Leviticus 9:3	And unto the children of Israel thou shalt speak, saying, Take ye a kid of the goats for a sin offering; and a calf and a lamb, both of the first year, without blemish, for a burnt offering;
Leviticus 9:4	Also a bullock and a ram for peace offerings, to sacrifice before the LORD; and a meat offering mingled with oil: for to day the LORD will appear unto you.
Leviticus 9:5	And they brought that which Moses commanded before the tabernacle of the congregation: and all the congregation drew near and stood before the LORD.
Leviticus 9:6	And Moses said, This is the thing which the LORD commanded that ye should do: and the glory of the LORD shall appear unto you.
Leviticus 9:7	And Moses said unto Aaron, Go unto the altar, and offer thy sin offering, and thy burnt offering, and make an atonement for thyself, and for the people: and offer the offering of the people, and make an atonement for them; as the LORD commanded.
Leviticus 9:8	Aaron therefore went unto the altar, and slew the calf of the sin offering, which was for himself.
Leviticus 9:9	And the sons of Aaron brought the blood unto him: and he dipped his finger in the blood, and put it upon the horns of the altar, and poured out the blood at the bottom of the altar:
Leviticus 9:10	But the fat, and the kidneys, and the caul above the liver of the sin offering, he burnt upon the altar; as the LORD commanded Moses.
Leviticus 9:11	And the flesh and the hide he burnt with fire without the camp.
Leviticus 9:12	And he slew the burnt offering; and Aaron's sons presented unto him the blood, which he sprinkled round about upon the altar.
Leviticus 9:13	And they presented the burnt offering unto him, with the pieces thereof, and the head: and he burnt them upon the altar.
Leviticus 9:14	And he did wash the inwards and the legs, and burnt them upon the burnt offering on the altar.
Leviticus 9:15	And he brought the people's offering, and took the goat, which was the sin offering for the people, and slew it, and offered it for sin, as the first.
Leviticus 9:16	And he brought the burnt offering, and offered it according to the manner.
Leviticus 9:17	And he brought the meat offering, and took an handful thereof, and burnt it upon the altar, beside the burnt sacrifice of the morning.
Leviticus 9:18	He slew also the bullock and the ram for a sacrifice of peace offerings, which was for the people: and Aaron's sons presented unto him the blood, which he sprinkled upon the altar round about,
Leviticus 9:19	And the fat of the bullock and of the ram, the rump, and that which covereth the inwards, and the kidneys, and the caul above the liver:
Leviticus 9:20	And they put the fat upon the breasts, and he burnt the fat upon the altar:
Leviticus 9:21	And the breasts and the right shoulder Aaron waved for a wave offering before the LORD; as Moses commanded.
Leviticus 9:22	And Aaron lifted up his hand toward the people, and blessed them, and came down from offering of the sin offering, and the burnt offering, and peace offerings.
Leviticus 9:23	And Moses and Aaron went into the tabernacle of the congregation, and came out, and blessed the people: and the glory of the LORD appeared unto all the people.
Leviticus 9:24	And there came a fire out from before the LORD, and consumed upon the altar the burnt offering and the fat: which when all the people saw, they shouted, and fell on their faces.
Leviticus 10:1	And Nadab and Abihu, the sons of Aaron, took either of them his censer, and put fire therein, and put incense thereon, and offered strange fire before the LORD, which he commanded them not.
Leviticus 10:2	And there went out fire from the LORD, and devoured them, and they died before the LORD.
Leviticus 10:3	Then Moses said unto Aaron, This is it that the LORD spake, saying, I will be sanctified in them that come nigh me, and before all the people I will be glorified. And Aaron held his peace.
Leviticus 10:4	And Moses called Mishael and Elzaphan, the sons of Uzziel the uncle of Aaron, and said unto them, Come near, carry your brethren from before the sanctuary out of the camp.
Leviticus 10:5	So they went near, and carried them in their coats out of the camp; as Moses had said.
Leviticus 10:6	And Moses said unto Aaron, and unto Eleazar and unto Ithamar, his sons, Uncover not your heads, neither rend your clothes; lest ye die, and lest wrath come upon all the people: but let your brethren, the whole house of Israel, bewail the burning which the LORD hath kindled.
Leviticus 10:7	And ye shall not go out from the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, lest ye die: for the anointing oil of the LORD is upon you. And they did according to the word of Moses.
Leviticus 10:8	And the LORD spake unto Aaron, saying,
Leviticus 10:9	Do not drink wine nor strong drink, thou, nor thy sons with thee, when ye go into the tabernacle of the congregation, lest ye die: it shall be a statute for ever throughout your generations:
Leviticus 10:10	And that ye may put difference between holy and unholy, and between unclean and clean;
Leviticus 10:11	And that ye may teach the children of Israel all the statutes which the LORD hath spoken unto them by the hand of Moses.
Leviticus 10:12	And Moses spake unto Aaron, and unto Eleazar and unto Ithamar, his sons that were left, Take the meat offering that remaineth of the offerings of the LORD made by fire, and eat it without leaven beside the altar: for it is most holy:
Leviticus 10:13	And ye shall eat it in the holy place, because it is thy due, and thy sons' due, of the sacrifices of the LORD made by fire: for so I am commanded.
Leviticus 10:14	And the wave breast and heave shoulder shall ye eat in a clean place; thou, and thy sons, and thy daughters with thee: for they be thy due, and thy sons' due, which are given out of the sacrifices of peace offerings of the children of Israel.
Leviticus 10:15	The heave shoulder and the wave breast shall they bring with the offerings made by fire of the fat, to wave it for a wave offering before the LORD; and it shall be thine, and thy sons' with thee, by a statute for ever; as the LORD hath commanded.
Leviticus 10:16	And Moses diligently sought the goat of the sin offering, and, behold, it was burnt: and he was angry with Eleazar and Ithamar, the sons of Aaron which were left alive, saying,
Leviticus 10:17	Wherefore have ye not eaten the sin offering in the holy place, seeing it is most holy, and God hath given it you to bear the iniquity of the congregation, to make atonement for them before the LORD?
Leviticus 10:18	Behold, the blood of it was not brought in within the holy place: ye should indeed have eaten it in the holy place, as I commanded.
Leviticus 10:19	And Aaron said unto Moses, Behold, this day have they offered their sin offering and their burnt offering before the LORD; and such things have befallen me: and if I had eaten the sin offering to day, should it have been accepted in the sight of the LORD?
Leviticus 10:20	And when Moses heard that, he was content.
Leviticus 11:1	And the LORD spake unto Moses and to Aaron, saying unto them,
Leviticus 11:2	Speak unto the children of Israel, saying, These are the beasts which ye shall eat among all the beasts that are on the earth.
