Numbers 10:12	And the children of Israel took their journeys out of the wilderness of Sinai; and the cloud rested in the wilderness of Paran.
Numbers 10:13	And they first took their journey according to the commandment of the LORD by the hand of Moses.
Numbers 10:14	In the first place went the standard of the camp of the children of Judah according to their armies: and over his host was Nahshon the son of Amminadab.
Numbers 10:15	And over the host of the tribe of the children of Issachar was Nethaneel the son of Zuar.
Numbers 10:16	And over the host of the tribe of the children of Zebulun was Eliab the son of Helon.
Numbers 10:17	And the tabernacle was taken down; and the sons of Gershon and the sons of Merari set forward, bearing the tabernacle.
Numbers 10:18	And the standard of the camp of Reuben set forward according to their armies: and over his host was Elizur the son of Shedeur.
Numbers 10:19	And over the host of the tribe of the children of Simeon was Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai.
Numbers 10:20	And over the host of the tribe of the children of Gad was Eliasaph the son of Deuel.
Numbers 10:21	And the Kohathites set forward, bearing the sanctuary: and the other did set up the tabernacle against they came.
Numbers 10:22	And the standard of the camp of the children of Ephraim set forward according to their armies: and over his host was Elishama the son of Ammihud.
Numbers 10:23	And over the host of the tribe of the children of Manasseh was Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur.
Numbers 10:24	And over the host of the tribe of the children of Benjamin was Abidan the son of Gideoni.
Numbers 10:25	And the standard of the camp of the children of Dan set forward, which was the rearward of all the camps throughout their hosts: and over his host was Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai.
Numbers 10:26	And over the host of the tribe of the children of Asher was Pagiel the son of Ocran.
Numbers 10:27	And over the host of the tribe of the children of Naphtali was Ahira the son of Enan.
Numbers 10:28	Thus were the journeyings of the children of Israel according to their armies, when they set forward.
Numbers 10:29	And Moses said unto Hobab, the son of Raguel the Midianite, Moses' father in law, We are journeying unto the place of which the LORD said, I will give it you: come thou with us, and we will do thee good: for the LORD hath spoken good concerning Israel.
Numbers 10:30	And he said unto him, I will not go; but I will depart to mine own land, and to my kindred.
Numbers 10:31	And he said, Leave us not, I pray thee; forasmuch as thou knowest how we are to encamp in the wilderness, and thou mayest be to us instead of eyes.
Numbers 10:32	And it shall be, if thou go with us, yea, it shall be, that what goodness the LORD shall do unto us, the same will we do unto thee.
Numbers 10:33	And they departed from the mount of the LORD three days' journey: and the ark of the covenant of the LORD went before them in the three days' journey, to search out a resting place for them.
Numbers 10:34	And the cloud of the LORD was upon them by day, when they went out of the camp.
Numbers 10:35	And it came to pass, when the ark set forward, that Moses said, Rise up, LORD, and let thine enemies be scattered; and let them that hate thee flee before thee.
Numbers 10:36	And when it rested, he said, Return, O LORD, unto the many thousands of Israel.
Numbers 11:1	And when the people complained, it displeased the LORD: and the LORD heard it; and his anger was kindled; and the fire of the LORD burnt among them, and consumed them that were in the uttermost parts of the camp.
Numbers 11:2	And the people cried unto Moses; and when Moses prayed unto the LORD, the fire was quenched.
Numbers 11:3	And he called the name of the place Taberah: because the fire of the LORD burnt among them.
Numbers 11:4	And the mixed multitude that was among them fell a lusting: and the children of Israel also wept again, and said, Who shall give us flesh to eat?
Numbers 11:5	We remember the fish, which we did eat in Egypt freely; the cucumbers, and the melons, and the leeks, and the onions, and the garlic:
Numbers 11:6	But now our soul is dried away: there is nothing at all, beside this manna, before our eyes.
Numbers 11:7	And the manna was as coriander seed, and the color thereof as the color of bdellium.
Numbers 11:8	And the people went about, and gathered it, and ground it in mills, or beat it in a mortar, and baked it in pans, and made cakes of it: and the taste of it was as the taste of fresh oil.
Numbers 11:9	And when the dew fell upon the camp in the night, the manna fell upon it.
Numbers 11:10	Then Moses heard the people weep throughout their families, every man in the door of his tent: and the anger of the LORD was kindled greatly; Moses also was displeased.
Numbers 11:11	And Moses said unto the LORD, Wherefore hast thou afflicted thy servant? and wherefore have I not found favor in thy sight, that thou layest the burden of all this people upon me?
Numbers 11:12	Have I conceived all this people? have I begotten them, that thou shouldest say unto me, Carry them in thy bosom, as a nursing father beareth the sucking child, unto the land which thou swarest unto their fathers?
Numbers 11:13	Whence should I have flesh to give unto all this people? for they weep unto me, saying, Give us flesh, that we may eat.
Numbers 11:14	I am not able to bear all this people alone, because it is too heavy for me.
Numbers 11:15	And if thou deal thus with me, kill me, I pray thee, out of hand, if I have found favor in thy sight; and let me not see my wretchedness.
Numbers 11:16	And the LORD said unto Moses, Gather unto me seventy men of the elders of Israel, whom thou knowest to be the elders of the people, and officers over them; and bring them unto the tabernacle of the congregation, that they may stand there with thee.
Numbers 11:17	And I will come down and talk with thee there: and I will take of the spirit which is upon thee, and will put it upon them; and they shall bear the burden of the people with thee, that thou bear it not thyself alone.
Numbers 11:18	And say thou unto the people, Sanctify yourselves against to morrow, and ye shall eat flesh: for ye have wept in the ears of the LORD, saying, Who shall give us flesh to eat? for it was well with us in Egypt: therefore the LORD will give you flesh, and ye shall eat.
Numbers 11:19	Ye shall not eat one day, nor two days, nor five days, neither ten days, nor twenty days;
Numbers 11:20	But even a whole month, until it come out at your nostrils, and it be loathsome unto you: because that ye have despised the LORD which is among you, and have wept before him, saying, Why came we forth out of Egypt?
Numbers 11:21	And Moses said, The people, among whom I am, are six hundred thousand footmen; and thou hast said, I will give them flesh, that they may eat a whole month.
Numbers 11:22	Shall the flocks and the herds be slain for them, to suffice them? or shall all the fish of the sea be gathered together for them, to suffice them?
Numbers 11:23	And the LORD said unto Moses, Is the LORD's hand waxed short? thou shalt see now whether my word shall come to pass unto thee or not.
Numbers 11:24	And Moses went out, and told the people the words of the LORD, and gathered the seventy men of the elders of the people, and set them round about the tabernacle.
Numbers 11:25	And the LORD came down in a cloud, and spake unto him, and took of the spirit that was upon him, and gave it unto the seventy elders: and it came to pass, that, when the spirit rested upon them, they prophesied, and did not cease.
Numbers 11:26	But there remained two of the men in the camp, the name of the one was Eldad, and the name of the other Medad: and the spirit rested upon them; and they were of them that were written, but went not out unto the tabernacle: and they prophesied in the camp.
Numbers 11:27	And there ran a young man, and told Moses, and said, Eldad and Medad do prophesy in the camp.
Numbers 11:28	And Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Moses, one of his young men, answered and said, My lord Moses, forbid them.
Numbers 11:29	And Moses said unto him, Enviest thou for my sake? would God that all the LORD's people were prophets, and that the LORD would put his spirit upon them!
Numbers 11:30	And Moses gat him into the camp, he and the elders of Israel.
Numbers 11:31	And there went forth a wind from the LORD, and brought quails from the sea, and let them fall by the camp, as it were a day's journey on this side, and as it were a day's journey on the other side, round about the camp, and as it were two cubits high upon the face of the earth.
Numbers 11:32	And the people stood up all that day, and all that night, and all the next day, and they gathered the quails: he that gathered least gathered ten homers: and they spread them all abroad for themselves round about the camp.
Numbers 11:33	And while the flesh was yet between their teeth, ere it was chewed, the wrath of the LORD was kindled against the people, and the LORD smote the people with a very great plague.
Numbers 11:34	And he called the name of that place Kibrothhattaavah: because there they buried the people that lusted.
Numbers 11:35	And the people journeyed from Kibrothhattaavah unto Hazeroth; and abode at Hazeroth.
Numbers 12:1	And Miriam and Aaron spake against Moses because of the Ethiopian woman whom he had married: for he had married an Ethiopian woman.
Numbers 12:2	And they said, Hath the LORD indeed spoken only by Moses? hath he not spoken also by us? And the LORD heard it.
Numbers 12:3	(Now the man Moses was very meek, above all the men which were upon the face of the earth.)
Numbers 12:4	And the LORD spake suddenly unto Moses, and unto Aaron, and unto Miriam, Come out ye three unto the tabernacle of the congregation. And they three came out.
Numbers 12:5	And the LORD came down in the pillar of the cloud, and stood in the door of the tabernacle, and called Aaron and Miriam: and they both came forth.
Numbers 12:6	And he said, Hear now my words: If there be a prophet among you, I the LORD will make myself known unto him in a vision, and will speak unto him in a dream.
Numbers 12:7	My servant Moses is not so, who is faithful in all mine house.
Numbers 12:8	With him will I speak mouth to mouth, even apparently, and not in dark speeches; and the similitude of the LORD shall he behold: wherefore then were ye not afraid to speak against my servant Moses?
Numbers 12:9	And the anger of the LORD was kindled against them; and he departed.
Numbers 12:10	And the cloud departed from off the tabernacle; and, behold, Miriam became leprous, white as snow: and Aaron looked upon Miriam, and, behold, she was leprous.
Numbers 12:11	And Aaron said unto Moses, Alas, my lord, I beseech thee, lay not the sin upon us, wherein we have done foolishly, and wherein we have sinned.
Numbers 12:12	Let her not be as one dead, of whom the flesh is half consumed when he cometh out of his mother's womb.
Numbers 12:13	And Moses cried unto the LORD, saying, Heal her now, O God, I beseech thee.
Numbers 12:14	And the LORD said unto Moses, If her father had but spit in her face, should she not be ashamed seven days? let her be shut out from the camp seven days, and after that let her be received in again.
Numbers 12:15	And Miriam was shut out from the camp seven days: and the people journeyed not till Miriam was brought in again.
Numbers 12:16	And afterward the people removed from Hazeroth, and pitched in the wilderness of Paran.
Numbers 13:1	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
Numbers 13:2	Send thou men, that they may search the land of Canaan, which I give unto the children of Israel: of every tribe of their fathers shall ye send a man, every one a ruler among them.
Numbers 13:3	And Moses by the commandment of the LORD sent them from the wilderness of Paran: all those men were heads of the children of Israel.
Numbers 13:4	And these were their names: of the tribe of Reuben, Shammua the son of Zaccur.
Numbers 13:5	Of the tribe of Simeon, Shaphat the son of Hori.
Numbers 13:6	Of the tribe of Judah, Caleb the son of Jephunneh.
Numbers 13:7	Of the tribe of Issachar, Igal the son of Joseph.
Numbers 13:8	Of the tribe of Ephraim, Oshea the son of Nun.
Numbers 13:9	Of the tribe of Benjamin, Palti the son of Raphu.
Numbers 13:10	Of the tribe of Zebulun, Gaddiel the son of Sodi.
Numbers 13:11	Of the tribe of Joseph, namely, of the tribe of Manasseh, Gaddi the son of Susi.
Numbers 13:12	Of the tribe of Dan, Ammiel the son of Gemalli.
Numbers 13:13	Of the tribe of Asher, Sethur the son of Michael.
Numbers 13:14	Of the tribe of Naphtali, Nahbi the son of Vophsi.
Numbers 13:15	Of the tribe of Gad, Geuel the son of Machi.
Numbers 13:16	These are the names of the men which Moses sent to spy out the land. And Moses called Oshea the son of Nun Jehoshua.
Numbers 13:17	And Moses sent them to spy out the land of Canaan, and said unto them, Get you up this way southward, and go up into the mountain:
Numbers 13:18	And see the land, what it is, and the people that dwelleth therein, whether they be strong or weak, few or many;
Numbers 13:19	And what the land is that they dwell in, whether it be good or bad; and what cities they be that they dwell in, whether in tents, or in strong holds;
Numbers 13:20	And what the land is, whether it be fat or lean, whether there be wood therein, or not. And be ye of good courage, and bring of the fruit of the land. Now the time was the time of the first ripe grapes.
Numbers 13:21	So they went up, and searched the land from the wilderness of Zin unto Rehob, as men come to Hamath.
Numbers 13:22	And they ascended by the south, and came unto Hebron; where Ahiman, Sheshai, and Talmai, the children of Anak, were. (Now Hebron was built seven years before Zoan in Egypt.)
Numbers 13:23	And they came unto the brook of Eshcol, and cut down from thence a branch with one cluster of grapes, and they bare it between two upon a staff; and they brought of the pomegranates, and of the figs.
Numbers 13:24	The place was called the brook Eshcol, because of the cluster of grapes which the children of Israel cut down from thence.
Numbers 13:25	And they returned from searching of the land after forty days.
Numbers 13:26	And they went and came to Moses, and to Aaron, and to all the congregation of the children of Israel, unto the wilderness of Paran, to Kadesh; and brought back word unto them, and unto all the congregation, and showed them the fruit of the land.
Numbers 13:27	And they told him, and said, We came unto the land whither thou sentest us, and surely it floweth with milk and honey; and this is the fruit of it.
Numbers 13:28	Nevertheless the people be strong that dwell in the land, and the cities are walled, and very great: and moreover we saw the children of Anak there.
Numbers 13:29	The Amalekites dwell in the land of the south: and the Hittites, and the Jebusites, and the Amorites, dwell in the mountains: and the Canaanites dwell by the sea, and by the coast of Jordan.
Numbers 13:30	And Caleb stilled the people before Moses, and said, Let us go up at once, and possess it; for we are well able to overcome it.
Numbers 13:31	But the men that went up with him said, We be not able to go up against the people; for they are stronger than we.
Numbers 13:32	And they brought up an evil report of the land which they had searched unto the children of Israel, saying, The land, through which we have gone to search it, is a land that eateth up the inhabitants thereof; and all the people that we saw in it are men of a great stature.
Numbers 13:33	And there we saw the giants, the sons of Anak, which come of the giants: and we were in our own sight as grasshoppers, and so we were in their sight.
Numbers 14:1	And all the congregation lifted up their voice, and cried; and the people wept that night.
Numbers 14:2	And all the children of Israel murmured against Moses and against Aaron: and the whole congregation said unto them, Would God that we had died in the land of Egypt! or would God we had died in this wilderness!
Numbers 14:3	And wherefore hath the LORD brought us unto this land, to fall by the sword, that our wives and our children should be a prey? were it not better for us to return into Egypt?
Numbers 14:4	And they said one to another, Let us make a captain, and let us return into Egypt.
Numbers 14:5	Then Moses and Aaron fell on their faces before all the assembly of the congregation of the children of Israel.
Numbers 14:6	And Joshua the son of Nun, and Caleb the son of Jephunneh, which were of them that searched the land, rent their clothes:
Numbers 14:7	And they spake unto all the company of the children of Israel, saying, The land, which we passed through to search it, is an exceeding good land.
Numbers 14:8	If the LORD delight in us, then he will bring us into this land, and give it us; a land which floweth with milk and honey.
Numbers 14:9	Only rebel not ye against the LORD, neither fear ye the people of the land; for they are bread for us: their defense is departed from them, and the LORD is with us: fear them not.
Numbers 14:10	But all the congregation bade stone them with stones. And the glory of the LORD appeared in the tabernacle of the congregation before all the children of Israel.
Numbers 14:11	And the LORD said unto Moses, How long will this people provoke me? and how long will it be ere they believe me, for all the signs which I have showed among them?
Numbers 14:12	I will smite them with the pestilence, and disinherit them, and will make of thee a greater nation and mightier than they.
Numbers 14:13	And Moses said unto the LORD, Then the Egyptians shall hear it, (for thou broughtest up this people in thy might from among them;)
Numbers 14:14	And they will tell it to the inhabitants of this land: for they have heard that thou LORD art among this people, that thou LORD art seen face to face, and that thy cloud standeth over them, and that thou goest before them, by day time in a pillar of a cloud, and in a pillar of fire by night.
Numbers 14:15	Now if thou shalt kill all this people as one man, then the nations which have heard the fame of thee will speak, saying,
Numbers 14:16	Because the LORD was not able to bring this people into the land which he sware unto them, therefore he hath slain them in the wilderness.
Numbers 14:17	And now, I beseech thee, let the power of my Lord be great, according as thou hast spoken, saying,
Numbers 14:18	The LORD is long-suffering, and of great mercy, forgiving iniquity and transgression, and by no means clearing the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto the third and fourth generation.
Numbers 14:19	Pardon, I beseech thee, the iniquity of this people according unto the greatness of thy mercy, and as thou hast forgiven this people, from Egypt even until now.
Numbers 14:20	And the LORD said, I have pardoned according to thy word:
Numbers 14:21	But as truly as I live, all the earth shall be filled with the glory of the LORD.
Numbers 14:22	Because all those men which have seen my glory, and my miracles, which I did in Egypt and in the wilderness, and have tempted me now these ten times, and have not hearkened to my voice;
Numbers 14:23	Surely they shall not see the land which I sware unto their fathers, neither shall any of them that provoked me see it:
Numbers 14:24	But my servant Caleb, because he had another spirit with him, and hath followed me fully, him will I bring into the land whereinto he went; and his seed shall possess it.
Numbers 14:25	(Now the Amalekites and the Canaanites dwelt in the valley.) Tomorrow turn you, and get you into the wilderness by the way of the Red sea.
Numbers 14:26	And the LORD spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying,
Numbers 14:27	How long shall I bear with this evil congregation, which murmur against me? I have heard the murmurings of the children of Israel, which they murmur against me.
Numbers 14:28	Say unto them, As truly as I live, saith the LORD, as ye have spoken in mine ears, so will I do to you:
Numbers 14:29	Your carcasses shall fall in this wilderness; and all that were numbered of you, according to your whole number, from twenty years old and upward which have murmured against me.
Numbers 14:30	Doubtless ye shall not come into the land, concerning which I sware to make you dwell therein, save Caleb the son of Jephunneh, and Joshua the son of Nun.
Numbers 14:31	But your little ones, which ye said should be a prey, them will I bring in, and they shall know the land which ye have despised.
Numbers 14:32	But as for you, your carcasses, they shall fall in this wilderness.
Numbers 14:33	And your children shall wander in the wilderness forty years, and bear your whoredoms, until your carcasses be wasted in the wilderness.
Numbers 14:34	After the number of the days in which ye searched the land, even forty days, each day for a year, shall ye bear your iniquities, even forty years, and ye shall know my breach of promise.
Numbers 14:35	I the LORD have said, I will surely do it unto all this evil congregation, that are gathered together against me: in this wilderness they shall be consumed, and there they shall die.
Numbers 14:36	And the men, which Moses sent to search the land, who returned, and made all the congregation to murmur against him, by bringing up a slander upon the land,
Numbers 14:37	Even those men that did bring up the evil report upon the land, died by the plague before the LORD.
Numbers 14:38	But Joshua the son of Nun, and Caleb the son of Jephunneh, which were of the men that went to search the land, lived still.
Numbers 14:39	And Moses told these sayings unto all the children of Israel: and the people mourned greatly.
Numbers 14:40	And they rose up early in the morning, and gat them up into the top of the mountain, saying, Lo, we be here, and will go up unto the place which the LORD hath promised: for we have sinned.
Numbers 14:41	And Moses said, Wherefore now do ye transgress the commandment of the LORD? but it shall not prosper.
Numbers 14:42	Go not up, for the LORD is not among you; that ye be not smitten before your enemies.
Numbers 14:43	For the Amalekites and the Canaanites are there before you, and ye shall fall by the sword: because ye are turned away from the LORD, therefore the LORD will not be with you.
Numbers 14:44	But they presumed to go up unto the hill top: nevertheless the ark of the covenant of the LORD, and Moses, departed not out of the camp.
Numbers 14:45	Then the Amalekites came down, and the Canaanites which dwelt in that hill, and smote them, and discomfited them, even unto Hormah.
Numbers 15:1	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
Numbers 15:2	Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, When ye be come into the land of your habitations, which I give unto you,
Numbers 15:3	And will make an offering by fire unto the LORD, a burnt offering, or a sacrifice in performing a vow, or in a freewill offering, or in your solemn feasts, to make a sweet savor unto the LORD, of the herd or of the flock:
Numbers 15:4	Then shall he that offereth his offering unto the LORD bring a meat offering of a tenth deal of flour mingled with the fourth part of an hin of oil.
Numbers 15:5	And the fourth part of an hin of wine for a drink offering shalt thou prepare with the burnt offering or sacrifice, for one lamb.
Numbers 15:6	Or for a ram, thou shalt prepare for a meat offering two tenth deals of flour mingled with the third part of an hin of oil.
Numbers 15:7	And for a drink offering thou shalt offer the third part of an hin of wine, for a sweet savor unto the LORD.
Numbers 15:8	And when thou preparest a bullock for a burnt offering, or for a sacrifice in performing a vow, or peace offerings unto the LORD:
Numbers 15:9	Then shall he bring with a bullock a meat offering of three tenth deals of flour mingled with half an hin of oil.
Numbers 15:10	And thou shalt bring for a drink offering half an hin of wine, for an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor unto the LORD.
Numbers 15:11	Thus shall it be done for one bullock, or for one ram, or for a lamb, or a kid.
Numbers 15:12	According to the number that ye shall prepare, so shall ye do to every one according to their number.
Numbers 15:13	All that are born of the country shall do these things after this manner, in offering an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor unto the LORD.
Numbers 15:14	And if a stranger sojourn with you, or whosoever be among you in your generations, and will offer an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor unto the LORD; as ye do, so he shall do.
Numbers 15:15	One ordinance shall be both for you of the congregation, and also for the stranger that sojourneth with you, an ordinance for ever in your generations: as ye are, so shall the stranger be before the LORD.
Numbers 15:16	One law and one manner shall be for you, and for the stranger that sojourneth with you.
Numbers 15:17	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
Numbers 15:18	Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, When ye come into the land whither I bring you,
Numbers 15:19	Then it shall be, that, when ye eat of the bread of the land, ye shall offer up an heave offering unto the LORD.
Numbers 15:20	Ye shall offer up a cake of the first of your dough for an heave offering: as ye do the heave offering of the threshingfloor, so shall ye heave it.
Numbers 15:21	Of the first of your dough ye shall give unto the LORD an heave offering in your generations.
Numbers 15:22	And if ye have erred, and not observed all these commandments, which the LORD hath spoken unto Moses,
Numbers 15:23	Even all that the LORD hath commanded you by the hand of Moses, from the day that the LORD commanded Moses, and henceforward among your generations;
Numbers 15:24	Then it shall be, if ought be committed by ignorance without the knowledge of the congregation, that all the congregation shall offer one young bullock for a burnt offering, for a sweet savor unto the LORD, with his meat offering, and his drink offering, according to the manner, and one kid of the goats for a sin offering.
Numbers 15:25	And the priest shall make an atonement for all the congregation of the children of Israel, and it shall be forgiven them; for it is ignorance: and they shall bring their offering, a sacrifice made by fire unto the LORD, and their sin offering before the LORD, for their ignorance:
Numbers 15:26	And it shall be forgiven all the congregation of the children of Israel, and the stranger that sojourneth among them; seeing all the people were in ignorance.
Numbers 15:27	And if any soul sin through ignorance, then he shall bring a she goat of the first year for a sin offering.
Numbers 15:28	And the priest shall make an atonement for the soul that sinneth ignorantly, when he sinneth by ignorance before the LORD, to make an atonement for him; and it shall be forgiven him.
Numbers 15:29	Ye shall have one law for him that sinneth through ignorance, both for him that is born among the children of Israel, and for the stranger that sojourneth among them.
Numbers 15:30	But the soul that doeth ought presumptuously, whether he be born in the land, or a stranger, the same reproacheth the LORD; and that soul shall be cut off from among his people.
Numbers 15:31	Because he hath despised the word of the LORD, and hath broken his commandment, that soul shall utterly be cut off; his iniquity shall be upon him.
Numbers 15:32	And while the children of Israel were in the wilderness, they found a man that gathered sticks upon the sabbath day.
Numbers 15:33	And they that found him gathering sticks brought him unto Moses and Aaron, and unto all the congregation.
Numbers 15:34	And they put him in ward, because it was not declared what should be done to him.
Numbers 15:35	And the LORD said unto Moses, The man shall be surely put to death: all the congregation shall stone him with stones without the camp.
Numbers 15:36	And all the congregation brought him without the camp, and stoned him with stones, and he died; as the LORD commanded Moses.
Numbers 15:37	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
Numbers 15:38	Speak unto the children of Israel, and bid them that they make them fringes in the borders of their garments throughout their generations, and that they put upon the fringe of the borders a ribband of blue:
Numbers 15:39	And it shall be unto you for a fringe, that ye may look upon it, and remember all the commandments of the LORD, and do them; and that ye seek not after your own heart and your own eyes, after which ye use to go a whoring:
Numbers 15:40	That ye may remember, and do all my commandments, and be holy unto your God.
Numbers 15:41	I am the LORD your God, which brought you out of the land of Egypt, to be your God: I am the LORD your God.
Numbers 16:1	Now Korah, the son of Izhar, the son of Kohath, the son of Levi, and Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab, and On, the son of Peleth, sons of Reuben, took men:
Numbers 16:2	And they rose up before Moses, with certain of the children of Israel, two hundred and fifty princes of the assembly, famous in the congregation, men of renown:
Numbers 16:3	And they gathered themselves together against Moses and against Aaron, and said unto them, Ye take too much upon you, seeing all the congregation are holy, every one of them, and the LORD is among them: wherefore then lift ye up yourselves above the congregation of the LORD?
Numbers 16:4	And when Moses heard it, he fell upon his face:
Numbers 16:5	And he spake unto Korah and unto all his company, saying, Even to morrow the LORD will show who are his, and who is holy; and will cause him to come near unto him: even him whom he hath chosen will he cause to come near unto him.
Numbers 16:6	This do; Take you censers, Korah, and all his company;
Numbers 16:7	And put fire therein, and put incense in them before the LORD to morrow: and it shall be that the man whom the LORD doth choose, he shall be holy: ye take too much upon you, ye sons of Levi.
Numbers 16:8	And Moses said unto Korah, Hear, I pray you, ye sons of Levi:
Numbers 16:9	Seemeth it but a small thing unto you, that the God of Israel hath separated you from the congregation of Israel, to bring you near to himself to do the service of the tabernacle of the LORD, and to stand before the congregation to minister unto them?
Numbers 16:10	And he hath brought thee near to him, and all thy brethren the sons of Levi with thee: and seek ye the priesthood also?
Numbers 16:11	For which cause both thou and all thy company are gathered together against the LORD: and what is Aaron, that ye murmur against him?
Numbers 16:12	And Moses sent to call Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab: which said, We will not come up:
Numbers 16:13	Is it a small thing that thou hast brought us up out of a land that floweth with milk and honey, to kill us in the wilderness, except thou make thyself altogether a prince over us?
Numbers 16:14	Moreover thou hast not brought us into a land that floweth with milk and honey, or given us inheritance of fields and vineyards: wilt thou put out the eyes of these men? we will not come up.
Numbers 16:15	And Moses was very wroth, and said unto the LORD, Respect not thou their offering: I have not taken one ass from them, neither have I hurt one of them.
Numbers 16:16	And Moses said unto Korah, Be thou and all thy company before the LORD, thou, and they, and Aaron, to morrow:
Numbers 16:17	And take every man his censer, and put incense in them, and bring ye before the LORD every man his censer, two hundred and fifty censers; thou also, and Aaron, each of you his censer.
Numbers 16:18	And they took every man his censer, and put fire in them, and laid incense thereon, and stood in the door of the tabernacle of the congregation with Moses and Aaron.
Numbers 16:19	And Korah gathered all the congregation against them unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation: and the glory of the LORD appeared unto all the congregation.
Numbers 16:20	And the LORD spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying,
Numbers 16:21	Separate yourselves from among this congregation, that I may consume them in a moment.
Numbers 16:22	And they fell upon their faces, and said, O God, the God of the spirits of all flesh, shall one man sin, and wilt thou be wroth with all the congregation?
Numbers 16:23	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
Numbers 16:24	Speak unto the congregation, saying, Get you up from about the tabernacle of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram.
Numbers 16:25	And Moses rose up and went unto Dathan and Abiram; and the elders of Israel followed him.
Numbers 16:26	And he spake unto the congregation, saying, Depart, I pray you, from the tents of these wicked men, and touch nothing of theirs, lest ye be consumed in all their sins.
Numbers 16:27	So they gat up from the tabernacle of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram, on every side: and Dathan and Abiram came out, and stood in the door of their tents, and their wives, and their sons, and their little children.
Numbers 16:28	And Moses said, Hereby ye shall know that the LORD hath sent me to do all these works; for I have not done them of mine own mind.
Numbers 16:29	If these men die the common death of all men, or if they be visited after the visitation of all men; then the LORD hath not sent me.
Numbers 16:30	But if the LORD make a new thing, and the earth open her mouth, and swallow them up, with all that appertain unto them, and they go down quick into the pit; then ye shall understand that these men have provoked the LORD.
Numbers 16:31	And it came to pass, as he had made an end of speaking all these words, that the ground clave asunder that was under them:
Numbers 16:32	And the earth opened her mouth, and swallowed them up, and their houses, and all the men that appertained unto Korah, and all their goods.
Numbers 16:33	They, and all that appertained to them, went down alive into the pit, and the earth closed upon them: and they perished from among the congregation.
Numbers 16:34	And all Israel that were round about them fled at the cry of them: for they said, Lest the earth swallow us up also.
Numbers 16:35	And there came out a fire from the LORD, and consumed the two hundred and fifty men that offered incense.
Numbers 16:36	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
Numbers 16:37	Speak unto Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest, that he take up the censers out of the burning, and scatter thou the fire yonder; for they are hallowed.
Numbers 16:38	The censers of these sinners against their own souls, let them make them broad plates for a covering of the altar: for they offered them before the LORD, therefore they are hallowed: and they shall be a sign unto the children of Israel.
Numbers 16:39	And Eleazar the priest took the brazen censers, wherewith they that were burnt had offered; and they were made broad plates for a covering of the altar:
Numbers 16:40	To be a memorial unto the children of Israel, that no stranger, which is not of the seed of Aaron, come near to offer incense before the LORD; that he be not as Korah, and as his company: as the LORD said to him by the hand of Moses.
Numbers 16:41	But on the morrow all the congregation of the children of Israel murmured against Moses and against Aaron, saying, Ye have killed the people of the LORD.
Numbers 16:42	And it came to pass, when the congregation was gathered against Moses and against Aaron, that they looked toward the tabernacle of the congregation: and, behold, the cloud covered it, and the glory of the LORD appeared.
Numbers 16:43	And Moses and Aaron came before the tabernacle of the congregation.
Numbers 16:44	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
Numbers 16:45	Get you up from among this congregation, that I may consume them as in a moment. And they fell upon their faces.
Numbers 16:46	And Moses said unto Aaron, Take a censer, and put fire therein from off the altar, and put on incense, and go quickly unto the congregation, and make an atonement for them: for there is wrath gone out from the LORD; the plague is begun.
Numbers 16:47	And Aaron took as Moses commanded, and ran into the midst of the congregation; and, behold, the plague was begun among the people: and he put on incense, and made an atonement for the people.
Numbers 16:48	And he stood between the dead and the living; and the plague was stayed.
Numbers 16:49	Now they that died in the plague were fourteen thousand and seven hundred, beside them that died about the matter of Korah.
Numbers 16:50	And Aaron returned unto Moses unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation: and the plague was stayed.
Numbers 17:1	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
Numbers 17:2	Speak unto the children of Israel, and take of every one of them a rod according to the house of their fathers, of all their princes according to the house of their fathers twelve rods: write thou every man's name upon his rod.
Numbers 17:3	And thou shalt write Aaron's name upon the rod of Levi: for one rod shall be for the head of the house of their fathers.
Numbers 17:4	And thou shalt lay them up in the tabernacle of the congregation before the testimony, where I will meet with you.
Numbers 17:5	And it shall come to pass, that the man's rod, whom I shall choose, shall blossom: and I will make to cease from me the murmurings of the children of Israel, whereby they murmur against you.
Numbers 17:6	And Moses spake unto the children of Israel, and every one of their princes gave him a rod apiece, for each prince one, according to their fathers' houses, even twelve rods: and the rod of Aaron was among their rods.
Numbers 17:7	And Moses laid up the rods before the LORD in the tabernacle of witness.
Numbers 17:8	And it came to pass, that on the morrow Moses went into the tabernacle of witness; and, behold, the rod of Aaron for the house of Levi was budded, and brought forth buds, and bloomed blossoms, and yielded almonds.
Numbers 17:9	And Moses brought out all the rods from before the LORD unto all the children of Israel: and they looked, and took every man his rod.
Numbers 17:10	And the LORD said unto Moses, Bring Aaron's rod again before the testimony, to be kept for a token against the rebels; and thou shalt quite take away their murmurings from me, that they die not.
Numbers 17:11	And Moses did so: as the LORD commanded him, so did he.
Numbers 17:12	And the children of Israel spake unto Moses, saying, Behold, we die, we perish, we all perish.
Numbers 17:13	Whosoever cometh any thing near unto the tabernacle of the LORD shall die: shall we be consumed with dying?
Numbers 18:1	And the LORD said unto Aaron, Thou and thy sons and thy father's house with thee shall bear the iniquity of the sanctuary: and thou and thy sons with thee shall bear the iniquity of your priesthood.
Numbers 18:2	And thy brethren also of the tribe of Levi, the tribe of thy father, bring thou with thee, that they may be joined unto thee, and minister unto thee: but thou and thy sons with thee shall minister before the tabernacle of witness.
Numbers 18:3	And they shall keep thy charge, and the charge of all the tabernacle: only they shall not come nigh the vessels of the sanctuary and the altar, that neither they, nor ye also, die.
Numbers 18:4	And they shall be joined unto thee, and keep the charge of the tabernacle of the congregation, for all the service of the tabernacle: and a stranger shall not come nigh unto you.
Numbers 18:5	And ye shall keep the charge of the sanctuary, and the charge of the altar: that there be no wrath any more upon the children of Israel.
Numbers 18:6	And I, behold, I have taken your brethren the Levites from among the children of Israel: to you they are given as a gift for the LORD, to do the service of the tabernacle of the congregation.
Numbers 18:7	Therefore thou and thy sons with thee shall keep your priest's office for everything of the altar, and within the vail; and ye shall serve: I have given your priest's office unto you as a service of gift: and the stranger that cometh nigh shall be put to death.
Numbers 18:8	And the LORD spake unto Aaron, Behold, I also have given thee the charge of mine heave offerings of all the hallowed things of the children of Israel; unto thee have I given them by reason of the anointing, and to thy sons, by an ordinance for ever.
Numbers 18:9	This shall be thine of the most holy things, reserved from the fire: every oblation of theirs, every meat offering of theirs, and every sin offering of theirs, and every trespass offering of theirs which they shall render unto me, shall be most holy for thee and for thy sons.
Numbers 18:10	In the most holy place shalt thou eat it; every male shall eat it: it shall be holy unto thee.
Numbers 18:11	And this is thine; the heave offering of their gift, with all the wave offerings of the children of Israel: I have given them unto thee, and to thy sons and to thy daughters with thee, by a statute for ever: every one that is clean in thy house shall eat of it.
Numbers 18:12	All the best of the oil, and all the best of the wine, and of the wheat, the firstfruits of them which they shall offer unto the LORD, them have I given thee.
Numbers 18:13	And whatsoever is first ripe in the land, which they shall bring unto the LORD, shall be thine; every one that is clean in thine house shall eat of it.
Numbers 18:14	Every thing devoted in Israel shall be thine.
Numbers 18:15	Every thing that openeth the matrix in all flesh, which they bring unto the LORD, whether it be of men or beasts, shall be thine: nevertheless the firstborn of man shalt thou surely redeem, and the firstling of unclean beasts shalt thou redeem.
Numbers 18:16	And those that are to be redeemed from a month old shalt thou redeem, according to thine estimation, for the money of five shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary, which is twenty gerahs.
Numbers 18:17	But the firstling of a cow, or the firstling of a sheep, or the firstling of a goat, thou shalt not redeem; they are holy: thou shalt sprinkle their blood upon the altar, and shalt burn their fat for an offering made by fire, for a sweet savor unto the LORD.
Numbers 18:18	And the flesh of them shall be thine, as the wave breast and as the right shoulder are thine.
Numbers 18:19	All the heave offerings of the holy things, which the children of Israel offer unto the LORD, have I given thee, and thy sons and thy daughters with thee, by a statute for ever: it is a covenant of salt for ever before the LORD unto thee and to thy seed with thee.
Numbers 18:20	And the LORD spake unto Aaron, Thou shalt have no inheritance in their land, neither shalt thou have any part among them: I am thy part and thine inheritance among the children of Israel.
Numbers 18:21	And, behold, I have given the children of Levi all the tenth in Israel for an inheritance, for their service which they serve, even the service of the tabernacle of the congregation.
Numbers 18:22	Neither must the children of Israel henceforth come nigh the tabernacle of the congregation, lest they bear sin, and die.
Numbers 18:23	But the Levites shall do the service of the tabernacle of the congregation, and they shall bear their iniquity: it shall be a statute for ever throughout your generations, that among the children of Israel they have no inheritance.
Numbers 18:24	But the tithes of the children of Israel, which they offer as an heave offering unto the LORD, I have given to the Levites to inherit: therefore I have said unto them, Among the children of Israel they shall have no inheritance.
Numbers 18:25	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
Numbers 18:26	Thus speak unto the Levites, and say unto them, When ye take of the children of Israel the tithes which I have given you from them for your inheritance, then ye shall offer up an heave offering of it for the LORD, even a tenth part of the tithe.
Numbers 18:27	And this your heave offering shall be reckoned unto you, as though it were the corn of the threshingfloor, and as the fulness of the winepress.
Numbers 18:28	Thus ye also shall offer an heave offering unto the LORD of all your tithes, which ye receive of the children of Israel; and ye shall give thereof the LORD's heave offering to Aaron the priest.
Numbers 18:29	Out of all your gifts ye shall offer every heave offering of the LORD, of all the best thereof, even the hallowed part thereof out of it.
Numbers 18:30	Therefore thou shalt say unto them, When ye have heaved the best thereof from it, then it shall be counted unto the Levites as the increase of the threshingfloor, and as the increase of the winepress.
Numbers 18:31	And ye shall eat it in every place, ye and your households: for it is your reward for your service in the tabernacle of the congregation.
Numbers 18:32	And ye shall bear no sin by reason of it, when ye have heaved from it the best of it: neither shall ye pollute the holy things of the children of Israel, lest ye die.
Numbers 19:1	And the LORD spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying,
Numbers 19:2	This is the ordinance of the law which the LORD hath commanded, saying, Speak unto the children of Israel, that they bring thee a red heifer without spot, wherein is no blemish, and upon which never came yoke:
Numbers 19:3	And ye shall give her unto Eleazar the priest, that he may bring her forth without the camp, and one shall slay her before his face:
Numbers 19:4	And Eleazar the priest shall take of her blood with his finger, and sprinkle of her blood directly before the tabernacle of the congregation seven times:
Numbers 19:5	And one shall burn the heifer in his sight; her skin, and her flesh, and her blood, with her dung, shall he burn:
Numbers 19:6	And the priest shall take cedar wood, and hyssop, and scarlet, and cast it into the midst of the burning of the heifer.
Numbers 19:7	Then the priest shall wash his clothes, and he shall bathe his flesh in water, and afterward he shall come into the camp, and the priest shall be unclean until the even.
Numbers 19:8	And he that burneth her shall wash his clothes in water, and bathe his flesh in water, and shall be unclean until the even.
Numbers 19:9	And a man that is clean shall gather up the ashes of the heifer, and lay them up without the camp in a clean place, and it shall be kept for the congregation of the children of Israel for a water of separation: it is a purification for sin.
Numbers 19:10	And he that gathereth the ashes of the heifer shall wash his clothes, and be unclean until the even: and it shall be unto the children of Israel, and unto the stranger that sojourneth among them, for a statute for ever.
Numbers 19:11	He that toucheth the dead body of any man shall be unclean seven days.
Numbers 19:12	He shall purify himself with it on the third day, and on the seventh day he shall be clean: but if he purify not himself the third day, then the seventh day he shall not be clean.
Numbers 19:13	Whosoever toucheth the dead body of any man that is dead, and purifieth not himself, defileth the tabernacle of the LORD; and that soul shall be cut off from Israel: because the water of separation was not sprinkled upon him, he shall be unclean; his uncleanness is yet upon him.
Numbers 19:14	This is the law, when a man dieth in a tent: all that come into the tent, and all that is in the tent, shall be unclean seven days.
Numbers 19:15	And every open vessel, which hath no covering bound upon it, is unclean.
Numbers 19:16	And whosoever toucheth one that is slain with a sword in the open fields, or a dead body, or a bone of a man, or a grave, shall be unclean seven days.
Numbers 19:17	And for an unclean person they shall take of the ashes of the burnt heifer of purification for sin, and running water shall be put thereto in a vessel:
Numbers 19:18	And a clean person shall take hyssop, and dip it in the water, and sprinkle it upon the tent, and upon all the vessels, and upon the persons that were there, and upon him that touched a bone, or one slain, or one dead, or a grave:
Numbers 19:19	And the clean person shall sprinkle upon the unclean on the third day, and on the seventh day: and on the seventh day he shall purify himself, and wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and shall be clean at even.
Numbers 19:20	But the man that shall be unclean, and shall not purify himself, that soul shall be cut off from among the congregation, because he hath defiled the sanctuary of the LORD: the water of separation hath not been sprinkled upon him; he is unclean.
Numbers 19:21	And it shall be a perpetual statute unto them, that he that sprinkleth the water of separation shall wash his clothes; and he that toucheth the water of separation shall be unclean until even.
Numbers 19:22	And whatsoever the unclean person toucheth shall be unclean; and the soul that toucheth it shall be unclean until even.
Numbers 20:1	Then came the children of Israel, even the whole congregation, into the desert of Zin in the first month: and the people abode in Kadesh; and Miriam died there, and was buried there.
Numbers 20:2	And there was no water for the congregation: and they gathered themselves together against Moses and against Aaron.
Numbers 20:3	And the people chode with Moses, and spake, saying, Would God that we had died when our brethren died before the LORD!
Numbers 20:4	And why have ye brought up the congregation of the LORD into this wilderness, that we and our cattle should die there?
Numbers 20:5	And wherefore have ye made us to come up out of Egypt, to bring us in unto this evil place? it is no place of seed, or of figs, or of vines, or of pomegranates; neither is there any water to drink.
Numbers 20:6	And Moses and Aaron went from the presence of the assembly unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and they fell upon their faces: and the glory of the LORD appeared unto them.
Numbers 20:7	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
Numbers 20:8	Take the rod, and gather thou the assembly together, thou, and Aaron thy brother, and speak ye unto the rock before their eyes; and it shall give forth his water, and thou shalt bring forth to them water out of the rock: so thou shalt give the congregation and their beasts drink.
Numbers 20:9	And Moses took the rod from before the LORD, as he commanded him.
Numbers 20:10	And Moses and Aaron gathered the congregation together before the rock, and he said unto them, Hear now, ye rebels; must we fetch you water out of this rock?
Numbers 20:11	And Moses lifted up his hand, and with his rod he smote the rock twice: and the water came out abundantly, and the congregation drank, and their beasts also.
Numbers 20:12	And the LORD spake unto Moses and Aaron, Because ye believed me not, to sanctify me in the eyes of the children of Israel, therefore ye shall not bring this congregation into the land which I have given them.
Numbers 20:13	This is the water of Meribah; because the children of Israel strove with the LORD, and he was sanctified in them.
Numbers 20:14	And Moses sent messengers from Kadesh unto the king of Edom, Thus saith thy brother Israel, Thou knowest all the travail that hath befallen us:
Numbers 20:15	How our fathers went down into Egypt, and we have dwelt in Egypt a long time; and the Egyptians vexed us, and our fathers:
Numbers 20:16	And when we cried unto the LORD, he heard our voice, and sent an angel, and hath brought us forth out of Egypt: and, behold, we are in Kadesh, a city in the uttermost of thy border:
Numbers 20:17	Let us pass, I pray thee, through thy country: we will not pass through the fields, or through the vineyards, neither will we drink of the water of the wells: we will go by the king's high way, we will not turn to the right hand nor to the left, until we have passed thy borders.
Numbers 20:18	And Edom said unto him, Thou shalt not pass by me, lest I come out against thee with the sword.
Numbers 20:19	And the children of Israel said unto him, We will go by the high way: and if I and my cattle drink of thy water, then I will pay for it: I will only, without doing anything else, go through on my feet.
Numbers 20:20	And he said, Thou shalt not go through. And Edom came out against him with much people, and with a strong hand.
Numbers 20:21	Thus Edom refused to give Israel passage through his border: wherefore Israel turned away from him.
Numbers 20:22	And the children of Israel, even the whole congregation, journeyed from Kadesh, and came unto mount Hor.
Numbers 20:23	And the LORD spake unto Moses and Aaron in mount Hor, by the coast of the land of Edom, saying,
Numbers 20:24	Aaron shall be gathered unto his people: for he shall not enter into the land which I have given unto the children of Israel, because ye rebelled against my word at the water of Meribah.
Numbers 20:25	Take Aaron and Eleazar his son, and bring them up unto mount Hor:
Numbers 20:26	And strip Aaron of his garments, and put them upon Eleazar his son: and Aaron shall be gathered unto his people, and shall die there.
Numbers 20:27	And Moses did as the LORD commanded: and they went up into mount Hor in the sight of all the congregation.
Numbers 20:28	And Moses stripped Aaron of his garments, and put them upon Eleazar his son; and Aaron died there in the top of the mount: and Moses and Eleazar came down from the mount.
Numbers 20:29	And when all the congregation saw that Aaron was dead, they mourned for Aaron thirty days, even all the house of Israel.
Numbers 21:1	And when king Arad the Canaanite, which dwelt in the south, heard tell that Israel came by the way of the spies; then he fought against Israel, and took some of them prisoners.
Numbers 21:2	And Israel vowed a vow unto the LORD, and said, If thou wilt indeed deliver this people into my hand, then I will utterly destroy their cities.
Numbers 21:3	And the LORD hearkened to the voice of Israel, and delivered up the Canaanites; and they utterly destroyed them and their cities: and he called the name of the place Hormah.
Numbers 21:4	And they journeyed from mount Hor by the way of the Red sea, to compass the land of Edom: and the soul of the people was much discouraged because of the way.
Numbers 21:5	And the people spake against God, and against Moses, Wherefore have ye brought us up out of Egypt to die in the wilderness? for there is no bread, neither is there any water; and our soul loatheth this light bread.
Numbers 21:6	And the LORD sent fiery serpents among the people, and they bit the people; and much people of Israel died.
Numbers 21:7	Therefore the people came to Moses, and said, We have sinned, for we have spoken against the LORD, and against thee; pray unto the LORD, that he take away the serpents from us. And Moses prayed for the people.
Numbers 21:8	And the LORD said unto Moses, Make thee a fiery serpent, and set it upon a pole: and it shall come to pass, that every one that is bitten, when he looketh upon it, shall live.
Numbers 21:9	And Moses made a serpent of brass, and put it upon a pole, and it came to pass, that if a serpent had bitten any man, when he beheld the serpent of brass, he lived.
Numbers 21:10	And the children of Israel set forward, and pitched in Oboth.
Numbers 21:11	And they journeyed from Oboth, and pitched at Ijeabarim, in the wilderness which is before Moab, toward the sunrising.
Numbers 21:12	From thence they removed, and pitched in the valley of Zared.
Numbers 21:13	From thence they removed, and pitched on the other side of Arnon, which is in the wilderness that cometh out of the coasts of the Amorites: for Arnon is the border of Moab, between Moab and the Amorites.
Numbers 21:14	Wherefore it is said in the book of the wars of the LORD, What he did in the Red sea, and in the brooks of Arnon,
Numbers 21:15	And at the stream of the brooks that goeth down to the dwelling of Ar, and lieth upon the border of Moab.
Numbers 21:16	And from thence they went to Beer: that is the well whereof the LORD spake unto Moses, Gather the people together, and I will give them water.
Numbers 21:17	Then Israel sang this song, Spring up, O well; sing ye unto it:
Numbers 21:18	The princes digged the well, the nobles of the people digged it, by the direction of the lawgiver, with their staves. And from the wilderness they went to Mattanah:
Numbers 21:19	And from Mattanah to Nahaliel: and from Nahaliel to Bamoth:
Numbers 21:20	And from Bamoth in the valley, that is in the country of Moab, to the top of Pisgah, which looketh toward Jeshimon.
Numbers 21:21	And Israel sent messengers unto Sihon king of the Amorites, saying,
Numbers 21:22	Let me pass through thy land: we will not turn into the fields, or into the vineyards; we will not drink of the waters of the well: but we will go along by the king's high way, until we be past thy borders.
Numbers 21:23	And Sihon would not suffer Israel to pass through his border: but Sihon gathered all his people together, and went out against Israel into the wilderness: and he came to Jahaz, and fought against Israel.
Numbers 21:24	And Israel smote him with the edge of the sword, and possessed his land from Arnon unto Jabbok, even unto the children of Ammon: for the border of the children of Ammon was strong.
Numbers 21:25	And Israel took all these cities: and Israel dwelt in all the cities of the Amorites, in Heshbon, and in all the villages thereof.
Numbers 21:26	For Heshbon was the city of Sihon the king of the Amorites, who had fought against the former king of Moab, and taken all his land out of his hand, even unto Arnon.
Numbers 21:27	Wherefore they that speak in proverbs say, Come into Heshbon, let the city of Sihon be built and prepared:
Numbers 21:28	For there is a fire gone out of Heshbon, a flame from the city of Sihon: it hath consumed Ar of Moab, and the lords of the high places of Arnon.
Numbers 21:29	Woe to thee, Moab! thou art undone, O people of Chemosh: he hath given his sons that escaped, and his daughters, into captivity unto Sihon king of the Amorites.
Numbers 21:30	We have shot at them; Heshbon is perished even unto Dibon, and we have laid them waste even unto Nophah, which reacheth unto Medeba.
Numbers 21:31	Thus Israel dwelt in the land of the Amorites.
Numbers 21:32	And Moses sent to spy out Jaazer, and they took the villages thereof, and drove out the Amorites that were there.
Numbers 21:33	And they turned and went up by the way of Bashan: and Og the king of Bashan went out against them, he, and all his people, to the battle at Edrei.
Numbers 21:34	And the LORD said unto Moses, Fear him not: for I have delivered him into thy hand, and all his people, and his land; and thou shalt do to him as thou didst unto Sihon king of the Amorites, which dwelt at Heshbon.
Numbers 21:35	So they smote him, and his sons, and all his people, until there was none left him alive: and they possessed his land.
Numbers 22:1	And the children of Israel set forward, and pitched in the plains of Moab on this side Jordan by Jericho.
Numbers 22:2	And Balak the son of Zippor saw all that Israel had done to the Amorites.
Numbers 22:3	And Moab was sore afraid of the people, because they were many: and Moab was distressed because of the children of Israel.
Numbers 22:4	And Moab said unto the elders of Midian, Now shall this company lick up all that are round about us, as the ox licketh up the grass of the field. And Balak the son of Zippor was king of the Moabites at that time.
Numbers 22:5	He sent messengers therefore unto Balaam the son of Beor to Pethor, which is by the river of the land of the children of his people, to call him, saying, Behold, there is a people come out from Egypt: behold, they cover the face of the earth, and they abide over against me:
Numbers 22:6	Come now therefore, I pray thee, curse me this people; for they are too mighty for me: peradventure I shall prevail, that we may smite them, and that I may drive them out of the land: for I wot that he whom thou blessest is blessed, and he whom thou cursest is cursed.
Numbers 22:7	And the elders of Moab and the elders of Midian departed with the rewards of divination in their hand; and they came unto Balaam, and spake unto him the words of Balak.
Numbers 22:8	And he said unto them, Lodge here this night, and I will bring you word again, as the LORD shall speak unto me: and the princes of Moab abode with Balaam.
Numbers 22:9	And God came unto Balaam, and said, What men are these with thee?
Numbers 22:10	And Balaam said unto God, Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab, hath sent unto me, saying,
Numbers 22:11	Behold, there is a people come out of Egypt, which covereth the face of the earth: come now, curse me them; peradventure I shall be able to overcome them, and drive them out.
Numbers 22:12	And God said unto Balaam, Thou shalt not go with them; thou shalt not curse the people: for they are blessed.
Numbers 22:13	And Balaam rose up in the morning, and said unto the princes of Balak, Get you into your land: for the LORD refuseth to give me leave to go with you.
Numbers 22:14	And the princes of Moab rose up, and they went unto Balak, and said, Balaam refuseth to come with us.
Numbers 22:15	And Balak sent yet again princes, more, and more honorable than they.
Numbers 22:16	And they came to Balaam, and said to him, Thus saith Balak the son of Zippor, Let nothing, I pray thee, hinder thee from coming unto me:
Numbers 22:17	For I will promote thee unto very great honor, and I will do whatsoever thou sayest unto me: come therefore, I pray thee, curse me this people.
Numbers 22:18	And Balaam answered and said unto the servants of Balak, If Balak would give me his house full of silver and gold, I cannot go beyond the word of the LORD my God, to do less or more.
Numbers 22:19	Now therefore, I pray you, tarry ye also here this night, that I may know what the LORD will say unto me more.
Numbers 22:20	And God came unto Balaam at night, and said unto him, If the men come to call thee, rise up, and go with them; but yet the word which I shall say unto thee, that shalt thou do.
Numbers 22:21	And Balaam rose up in the morning, and saddled his ass, and went with the princes of Moab.
Numbers 22:22	And God's anger was kindled because he went: and the angel of the LORD stood in the way for an adversary against him. Now he was riding upon his ass, and his two servants were with him.
Numbers 22:23	And the ass saw the angel of the LORD standing in the way, and his sword drawn in his hand: and the ass turned aside out of the way, and went into the field: and Balaam smote the ass, to turn her into the way.
Numbers 22:24	But the angel of the LORD stood in a path of the vineyards, a wall being on this side, and a wall on that side.
Numbers 22:25	And when the ass saw the angel of the LORD, she thrust herself unto the wall, and crushed Balaam's foot against the wall: and he smote her again.
Numbers 22:26	And the angel of the LORD went further, and stood in a narrow place, where was no way to turn either to the right hand or to the left.
Numbers 22:27	And when the ass saw the angel of the LORD, she fell down under Balaam: and Balaam's anger was kindled, and he smote the ass with a staff.
Numbers 22:28	And the LORD opened the mouth of the ass, and she said unto Balaam, What have I done unto thee, that thou hast smitten me these three times?
Numbers 22:29	And Balaam said unto the ass, Because thou hast mocked me: I would there were a sword in mine hand, for now would I kill thee.
Numbers 22:30	And the ass said unto Balaam, Am not I thine ass, upon which thou hast ridden ever since I was thine unto this day? was I ever wont to do so unto thee? And he said, Nay.
Numbers 22:31	Then the LORD opened the eyes of Balaam, and he saw the angel of the LORD standing in the way, and his sword drawn in his hand: and he bowed down his head, and fell flat on his face.
Numbers 22:32	And the angel of the LORD said unto him, Wherefore hast thou smitten thine ass these three times? behold, I went out to withstand thee, because thy way is perverse before me:
Numbers 22:33	And the ass saw me, and turned from me these three times: unless she had turned from me, surely now also I had slain thee, and saved her alive.
Numbers 22:34	And Balaam said unto the angel of the LORD, I have sinned; for I knew not that thou stoodest in the way against me: now therefore, if it displease thee, I will get me back again.
Numbers 22:35	And the angel of the LORD said unto Balaam, Go with the men: but only the word that I shall speak unto thee, that thou shalt speak. So Balaam went with the princes of Balak.
Numbers 22:36	And when Balak heard that Balaam was come, he went out to meet him unto a city of Moab, which is in the border of Arnon, which is in the utmost coast.
Numbers 22:37	And Balak said unto Balaam, Did I not earnestly send unto thee to call thee? wherefore camest thou not unto me? am I not able indeed to promote thee to honor?
Numbers 22:38	And Balaam said unto Balak, Lo, I am come unto thee: have I now any power at all to say any thing? the word that God putteth in my mouth, that shall I speak.
Numbers 22:39	And Balaam went with Balak, and they came unto Kirjathhuzoth.
Numbers 22:40	And Balak offered oxen and sheep, and sent to Balaam, and to the princes that were with him.
Numbers 22:41	And it came to pass on the morrow, that Balak took Balaam, and brought him up into the high places of Baal, that thence he might see the utmost part of the people.
Numbers 23:1	And Balaam said unto Balak, Build me here seven altars, and prepare me here seven oxen and seven rams.
Numbers 23:2	And Balak did as Balaam had spoken; and Balak and Balaam offered on every altar a bullock and a ram.
Numbers 23:3	And Balaam said unto Balak, Stand by thy burnt offering, and I will go: peradventure the LORD will come to meet me: and whatsoever he showeth me I will tell thee. And he went to an high place.
Numbers 23:4	And God met Balaam: and he said unto him, I have prepared seven altars, and I have offered upon every altar a bullock and a ram.
Numbers 23:5	And the LORD put a word in Balaam's mouth, and said, Return unto Balak, and thus thou shalt speak.
Numbers 23:6	And he returned unto him, and, lo, he stood by his burnt sacrifice, he, and all the princes of Moab.
Numbers 23:7	And he took up his parable, and said, Balak the king of Moab hath brought me from Aram, out of the mountains of the east, saying, Come, curse me Jacob, and come, defy Israel.
Numbers 23:8	How shall I curse, whom God hath not cursed? or how shall I defy, whom the LORD hath not defied?
Numbers 23:9	For from the top of the rocks I see him, and from the hills I behold him: lo, the people shall dwell alone, and shall not be reckoned among the nations.
Numbers 23:10	Who can count the dust of Jacob, and the number of the fourth part of Israel? Let me die the death of the righteous, and let my last end be like his!
Numbers 23:11	And Balak said unto Balaam, What hast thou done unto me? I took thee to curse mine enemies, and, behold, thou hast blessed them altogether.
Numbers 23:12	And he answered and said, Must I not take heed to speak that which the LORD hath put in my mouth?
Numbers 23:13	And Balak said unto him, Come, I pray thee, with me unto another place, from whence thou mayest see them: thou shalt see but the utmost part of them, and shalt not see them all: and curse me them from thence.
Numbers 23:14	And he brought him into the field of Zophim, to the top of Pisgah, and built seven altars, and offered a bullock and a ram on every altar.
Numbers 23:15	And he said unto Balak, Stand here by thy burnt offering, while I meet the LORD yonder.
Numbers 23:16	And the LORD met Balaam, and put a word in his mouth, and said, Go again unto Balak, and say thus.
Numbers 23:17	And when he came to him, behold, he stood by his burnt offering, and the princes of Moab with him. And Balak said unto him, What hath the LORD spoken?
Numbers 23:18	And he took up his parable, and said, Rise up, Balak, and hear; hearken unto me, thou son of Zippor:
Numbers 23:19	God is not a man, that he should lie; neither the son of man, that he should repent: hath he said, and shall he not do it? or hath he spoken, and shall he not make it good?
Numbers 23:20	Behold, I have received commandment to bless: and he hath blessed; and I cannot reverse it.
Numbers 23:21	He hath not beheld iniquity in Jacob, neither hath he seen perverseness in Israel: the LORD his God is with him, and the shout of a king is among them.
Numbers 23:22	God brought them out of Egypt; he hath as it were the strength of an unicorn.
Numbers 23:23	Surely there is no enchantment against Jacob, neither is there any divination against Israel: according to this time it shall be said of Jacob and of Israel, What hath God wrought!
Numbers 23:24	Behold, the people shall rise up as a great lion, and lift up himself as a young lion: he shall not lie down until he eat of the prey, and drink the blood of the slain.
Numbers 23:25	And Balak said unto Balaam, Neither curse them at all, nor bless them at all.
Numbers 23:26	But Balaam answered and said unto Balak, Told not I thee, saying, All that the LORD speaketh, that I must do?
Numbers 23:27	And Balak said unto Balaam, Come, I pray thee, I will bring thee unto another place; peradventure it will please God that thou mayest curse me them from thence.
Numbers 23:28	And Balak brought Balaam unto the top of Peor, that looketh toward Jeshimon.
Numbers 23:29	And Balaam said unto Balak, Build me here seven altars, and prepare me here seven bullocks and seven rams.
Numbers 23:30	And Balak did as Balaam had said, and offered a bullock and a ram on every altar.
Numbers 24:1	And when Balaam saw that it pleased the LORD to bless Israel, he went not, as at other times, to seek for enchantments, but he set his face toward the wilderness.
Numbers 24:2	And Balaam lifted up his eyes, and he saw Israel abiding in his tents according to their tribes; and the spirit of God came upon him.
Numbers 24:3	And he took up his parable, and said, Balaam the son of Beor hath said, and the man whose eyes are open hath said:
Numbers 24:4	He hath said, which heard the words of God, which saw the vision of the Almighty, falling into a trance, but having his eyes open:
Numbers 24:5	How goodly are thy tents, O Jacob, and thy tabernacles, O Israel!
Numbers 24:6	As the valleys are they spread forth, as gardens by the river's side, as the trees of lign aloes which the LORD hath planted, and as cedar trees beside the waters.
Numbers 24:7	He shall pour the water out of his buckets, and his seed shall be in many waters, and his king shall be higher than Agag, and his kingdom shall be exalted.
Numbers 24:8	God brought him forth out of Egypt; he hath as it were the strength of an unicorn: he shall eat up the nations his enemies, and shall break their bones, and pierce them through with his arrows.
Numbers 24:9	He couched, he lay down as a lion, and as a great lion: who shall stir him up? Blessed is he that blesseth thee, and cursed is he that curseth thee.
Numbers 24:10	And Balak's anger was kindled against Balaam, and he smote his hands together: and Balak said unto Balaam, I called thee to curse mine enemies, and, behold, thou hast altogether blessed them these three times.
Numbers 24:11	Therefore now flee thou to thy place: I thought to promote thee unto great honor; but, lo, the LORD hath kept thee back from honor.
Numbers 24:12	And Balaam said unto Balak, Spake I not also to thy messengers which thou sentest unto me, saying,
Numbers 24:13	If Balak would give me his house full of silver and gold, I cannot go beyond the commandment of the LORD, to do either good or bad of mine own mind; but what the LORD saith, that will I speak?
Numbers 24:14	And now, behold, I go unto my people: come therefore, and I will advertise thee what this people shall do to thy people in the latter days.
Numbers 24:15	And he took up his parable, and said, Balaam the son of Beor hath said, and the man whose eyes are open hath said:
Numbers 24:16	He hath said, which heard the words of God, and knew the knowledge of the most High, which saw the vision of the Almighty, falling into a trance, but having his eyes open:
Numbers 24:17	I shall see him, but not now: I shall behold him, but not nigh: there shall come a Star out of Jacob, and a Sceptre shall rise out of Israel, and shall smite the corners of Moab, and destroy all the children of Sheth.
Numbers 24:18	And Edom shall be a possession, Seir also shall be a possession for his enemies; and Israel shall do valiantly.
Numbers 24:19	Out of Jacob shall come he that shall have dominion, and shall destroy him that remaineth of the city.
Numbers 24:20	And when he looked on Amalek, he took up his parable, and said, Amalek was the first of the nations; but his latter end shall be that he perish for ever.
Numbers 24:21	And he looked on the Kenites, and took up his parable, and said, Strong is thy dwelling place, and thou puttest thy nest in a rock.
Numbers 24:22	Nevertheless the Kenite shall be wasted, until Asshur shall carry thee away captive.
Numbers 24:23	And he took up his parable, and said, Alas, who shall live when God doeth this!
Numbers 24:24	And ships shall come from the coast of Chittim, and shall afflict Asshur, and shall afflict Eber, and he also shall perish for ever.
Numbers 24:25	And Balaam rose up, and went and returned to his place: and Balak also went his way.
Numbers 25:1	And Israel abode in Shittim, and the people began to commit whoredom with the daughters of Moab.
Numbers 25:2	And they called the people unto the sacrifices of their gods: and the people did eat, and bowed down to their gods.
Numbers 25:3	And Israel joined himself unto Baalpeor: and the anger of the LORD was kindled against Israel.
Numbers 25:4	And the LORD said unto Moses, Take all the heads of the people, and hang them up before the LORD against the sun, that the fierce anger of the LORD may be turned away from Israel.
Numbers 25:5	And Moses said unto the judges of Israel, Slay ye every one his men that were joined unto Baalpeor.
Numbers 25:6	And, behold, one of the children of Israel came and brought unto his brethren a Midianitish woman in the sight of Moses, and in the sight of all the congregation of the children of Israel, who were weeping before the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.
Numbers 25:7	And when Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron the priest, saw it, he rose up from among the congregation, and took a javelin in his hand;
Numbers 25:8	And he went after the man of Israel into the tent, and thrust both of them through, the man of Israel, and the woman through her belly. So the plague was stayed from the children of Israel.
Numbers 25:9	And those that died in the plague were twenty and four thousand.
Numbers 25:10	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
Numbers 25:11	Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron the priest, hath turned my wrath away from the children of Israel, while he was zealous for my sake among them, that I consumed not the children of Israel in my jealousy.
Numbers 25:12	Wherefore say, Behold, I give unto him my covenant of peace:
Numbers 25:13	And he shall have it, and his seed after him, even the covenant of an everlasting priesthood; because he was zealous for his God, and made an atonement for the children of Israel.
Numbers 25:14	Now the name of the Israelite that was slain, even that was slain with the Midianitish woman, was Zimri, the son of Salu, a prince of a chief house among the Simeonites.
Numbers 25:15	And the name of the Midianitish woman that was slain was Cozbi, the daughter of Zur; he was head over a people, and of a chief house in Midian.
Numbers 25:16	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
Numbers 25:17	Vex the Midianites, and smite them:
Numbers 25:18	For they vex you with their wiles, wherewith they have beguiled you in the matter of Peor, and in the matter of Cozbi, the daughter of a prince of Midian, their sister, which was slain in the day of the plague for Peor's sake.
Numbers 26:1	And it came to pass after the plague, that the LORD spake unto Moses and unto Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest, saying,
Numbers 26:2	Take the sum of all the congregation of the children of Israel, from twenty years old and upward, throughout their fathers' house, all that are able to go to war in Israel.
Numbers 26:3	And Moses and Eleazar the priest spake with them in the plains of Moab by Jordan near Jericho, saying,
Numbers 26:4	Take the sum of the people, from twenty years old and upward; as the LORD commanded Moses and the children of Israel, which went forth out of the land of Egypt.
Numbers 26:5	Reuben, the eldest son of Israel: the children of Reuben; Hanoch, of whom cometh the family of the Hanochites: of Pallu, the family of the Palluites:
Numbers 26:6	Of Hezron, the family of the Hezronites: of Carmi, the family of the Carmites.
Numbers 26:7	These are the families of the Reubenites: and they that were numbered of them were forty and three thousand and seven hundred and thirty.
Numbers 26:8	And the sons of Pallu; Eliab.
Numbers 26:9	And the sons of Eliab; Nemuel, and Dathan, and Abiram. This is that Dathan and Abiram, which were famous in the congregation, who strove against Moses and against Aaron in the company of Korah, when they strove against the LORD:
Numbers 26:10	And the earth opened her mouth, and swallowed them up together with Korah, when that company died, what time the fire devoured two hundred and fifty men: and they became a sign.
Numbers 26:11	Notwithstanding the children of Korah died not.
Numbers 26:12	The sons of Simeon after their families: of Nemuel, the family of the Nemuelites: of Jamin, the family of the Jaminites: of Jachin, the family of the Jachinites:
Numbers 26:13	Of Zerah, the family of the Zarhites: of Shaul, the family of the Shaulites.
Numbers 26:14	These are the families of the Simeonites, twenty and two thousand and two hundred.
Numbers 26:15	The children of Gad after their families: of Zephon, the family of the Zephonites: of Haggi, the family of the Haggites: of Shuni, the family of the Shunites:
Numbers 26:16	Of Ozni, the family of the Oznites: of Eri, the family of the Erites:
Numbers 26:17	Of Arod, the family of the Arodites: of Areli, the family of the Arelites.
Numbers 26:18	These are the families of the children of Gad according to those that were numbered of them, forty thousand and five hundred.
Numbers 26:19	The sons of Judah were Er and Onan: and Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan.
Numbers 26:20	And the sons of Judah after their families were; of Shelah, the family of the Shelanites: of Pharez, the family of the Pharzites: of Zerah, the family of the Zarhites.
Numbers 26:21	And the sons of Pharez were; of Hezron, the family of the Hezronites: of Hamul, the family of the Hamulites.
Numbers 26:22	These are the families of Judah according to those that were numbered of them, threescore and sixteen thousand and five hundred.
Numbers 26:23	Of the sons of Issachar after their families: of Tola, the family of the Tolaites: of Pua, the family of the Punites:
Numbers 26:24	Of Jashub, the family of the Jashubites: of Shimron, the family of the Shimronites.
Numbers 26:25	These are the families of Issachar according to those that were numbered of them, threescore and four thousand and three hundred.
Numbers 26:26	Of the sons of Zebulun after their families: of Sered, the family of the Sardites: of Elon, the family of the Elonites: of Jahleel, the family of the Jahleelites.
Numbers 26:27	These are the families of the Zebulunites according to those that were numbered of them, threescore thousand and five hundred.
Numbers 26:28	The sons of Joseph after their families were Manasseh and Ephraim.
Numbers 26:29	Of the sons of Manasseh: of Machir, the family of the Machirites: and Machir begat Gilead: of Gilead come the family of the Gileadites.
Numbers 26:30	These are the sons of Gilead: of Jeezer, the family of the Jeezerites: of Helek, the family of the Helekites:
Numbers 26:31	And of Asriel, the family of the Asrielites: and of Shechem, the family of the Shechemites:
Numbers 26:32	And of Shemida, the family of the Shemidaites: and of Hepher, the family of the Hepherites.
Numbers 26:33	And Zelophehad the son of Hepher had no sons, but daughters: and the names of the daughters of Zelophehad were Mahlah, and Noah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Tirzah.
Numbers 26:34	These are the families of Manasseh, and those that were numbered of them, fifty and two thousand and seven hundred.
Numbers 26:35	These are the sons of Ephraim after their families: of Shuthelah, the family of the Shuthalhites: of Becher, the family of the Bachrites: of Tahan, the family of the Tahanites.
Numbers 26:36	And these are the sons of Shuthelah: of Eran, the family of the Eranites.
Numbers 26:37	These are the families of the sons of Ephraim according to those that were numbered of them, thirty and two thousand and five hundred. These are the sons of Joseph after their families.
Numbers 26:38	The sons of Benjamin after their families: of Bela, the family of the Belaites: of Ashbel, the family of the Ashbelites: of Ahiram, the family of the Ahiramites:
Numbers 26:39	Of Shupham, the family of the Shuphamites: of Hupham, the family of the Huphamites.
Numbers 26:40	And the sons of Bela were Ard and Naaman: of Ard, the family of the Ardites: and of Naaman, the family of the Naamites.
Numbers 26:41	These are the sons of Benjamin after their families: and they that were numbered of them were forty and five thousand and six hundred.
Numbers 26:42	These are the sons of Dan after their families: of Shuham, the family of the Shuhamites. These are the families of Dan after their families.
Numbers 26:43	All the families of the Shuhamites, according to those that were numbered of them, were threescore and four thousand and four hundred.
Numbers 26:44	Of the children of Asher after their families: of Jimna, the family of the Jimnites: of Jesui, the family of the Jesuites: of Beriah, the family of the Beriites.
Numbers 26:45	Of the sons of Beriah: of Heber, the family of the Heberites: of Malchiel, the family of the Malchielites.
Numbers 26:46	And the name of the daughter of Asher was Sarah.
Numbers 26:47	These are the families of the sons of Asher according to those that were numbered of them; who were fifty and three thousand and four hundred.
Numbers 26:48	Of the sons of Naphtali after their families: of Jahzeel, the family of the Jahzeelites: of Guni, the family of the Gunites:
Numbers 26:49	Of Jezer, the family of the Jezerites: of Shillem, the family of the Shillemites.
Numbers 26:50	These are the families of Naphtali according to their families: and they that were numbered of them were forty and five thousand and four hundred.
Numbers 26:51	These were the numbered of the children of Israel, six hundred thousand and a thousand seven hundred and thirty.
Numbers 26:52	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
Numbers 26:53	Unto these the land shall be divided for an inheritance according to the number of names.
Numbers 26:54	To many thou shalt give the more inheritance, and to few thou shalt give the less inheritance: to every one shall his inheritance be given according to those that were numbered of him.
Numbers 26:55	Notwithstanding the land shall be divided by lot: according to the names of the tribes of their fathers they shall inherit.
Numbers 26:56	According to the lot shall the possession thereof be divided between many and few.
Numbers 26:57	And these are they that were numbered of the Levites after their families: of Gershon, the family of the Gershonites: of Kohath, the family of the Kohathites: of Merari, the family of the Merarites.
Numbers 26:58	These are the families of the Levites: the family of the Libnites, the family of the Hebronites, the family of the Mahlites, the family of the Mushites, the family of the Korathites. And Kohath begat Amram.
Numbers 26:59	And the name of Amram's wife was Jochebed, the daughter of Levi, whom her mother bare to Levi in Egypt: and she bare unto Amram Aaron and Moses, and Miriam their sister.
Numbers 26:60	And unto Aaron was born Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.
Numbers 26:61	And Nadab and Abihu died, when they offered strange fire before the LORD.
Numbers 26:62	And those that were numbered of them were twenty and three thousand, all males from a month old and upward: for they were not numbered among the children of Israel, because there was no inheritance given them among the children of Israel.
Numbers 26:63	These are they that were numbered by Moses and Eleazar the priest, who numbered the children of Israel in the plains of Moab by Jordan near Jericho.
Numbers 26:64	But among these there was not a man of them whom Moses and Aaron the priest numbered, when they numbered the children of Israel in the wilderness of Sinai.
Numbers 26:65	For the LORD had said of them, They shall surely die in the wilderness. And there was not left a man of them, save Caleb the son of Jephunneh, and Joshua the son of Nun.
Numbers 27:1	Then came the daughters of Zelophehad, the son of Hepher, the son of Gilead, the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh, of the families of Manasseh the son of Joseph: and these are the names of his daughters; Mahlah, Noah, and Hoglah, and Milcah, and Tirzah.
Numbers 27:2	And they stood before Moses, and before Eleazar the priest, and before the princes and all the congregation, by the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, saying,
Numbers 27:3	Our father died in the wilderness, and he was not in the company of them that gathered themselves together against the LORD in the company of Korah; but died in his own sin, and had no sons.
Numbers 27:4	Why should the name of our father be done away from among his family, because he hath no son? Give unto us therefore a possession among the brethren of our father.
Numbers 27:5	And Moses brought their cause before the LORD.
Numbers 27:6	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
Numbers 27:7	The daughters of Zelophehad speak right: thou shalt surely give them a possession of an inheritance among their father's brethren; and thou shalt cause the inheritance of their father to pass unto them.
Numbers 27:8	And thou shalt speak unto the children of Israel, saying, If a man die, and have no son, then ye shall cause his inheritance to pass unto his daughter.
Numbers 27:9	And if he have no daughter, then ye shall give his inheritance unto his brethren.
Numbers 27:10	And if he have no brethren, then ye shall give his inheritance unto his father's brethren.
Numbers 27:11	And if his father have no brethren, then ye shall give his inheritance unto his kinsman that is next to him of his family, and he shall possess it: and it shall be unto the children of Israel a statute of judgment, as the LORD commanded Moses.
Numbers 27:12	And the LORD said unto Moses, Get thee up into this mount Abarim, and see the land which I have given unto the children of Israel.
Numbers 27:13	And when thou hast seen it, thou also shalt be gathered unto thy people, as Aaron thy brother was gathered.
Numbers 27:14	For ye rebelled against my commandment in the desert of Zin, in the strife of the congregation, to sanctify me at the water before their eyes: that is the water of Meribah in Kadesh in the wilderness of Zin.
Numbers 27:15	And Moses spake unto the LORD, saying,
Numbers 27:16	Let the LORD, the God of the spirits of all flesh, set a man over the congregation,
Numbers 27:17	Which may go out before them, and which may go in before them, and which may lead them out, and which may bring them in; that the congregation of the LORD be not as sheep which have no shepherd.
Numbers 27:18	And the LORD said unto Moses, Take thee Joshua the son of Nun, a man in whom is the spirit, and lay thine hand upon him;
Numbers 27:19	And set him before Eleazar the priest, and before all the congregation; and give him a charge in their sight.
Numbers 27:20	And thou shalt put some of thine honor upon him, that all the congregation of the children of Israel may be obedient.
Numbers 27:21	And he shall stand before Eleazar the priest, who shall ask counsel for him after the judgment of Urim before the LORD: at his word shall they go out, and at his word they shall come in, both he, and all the children of Israel with him, even all the congregation.
Numbers 27:22	And Moses did as the LORD commanded him: and he took Joshua, and set him before Eleazar the priest, and before all the congregation:
Numbers 27:23	And he laid his hands upon him, and gave him a charge, as the LORD commanded by the hand of Moses.
Numbers 28:1	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
Numbers 28:2	Command the children of Israel, and say unto them, My offering, and my bread for my sacrifices made by fire, for a sweet savor unto me, shall ye observe to offer unto me in their due season.
Numbers 28:3	And thou shalt say unto them, This is the offering made by fire which ye shall offer unto the LORD; two lambs of the first year without spot day by day, for a continual burnt offering.
Numbers 28:4	The one lamb shalt thou offer in the morning, and the other lamb shalt thou offer at even;
Numbers 28:5	And a tenth part of an ephah of flour for a meat offering, mingled with the fourth part of an hin of beaten oil.
Numbers 28:6	It is a continual burnt offering, which was ordained in mount Sinai for a sweet savor, a sacrifice made by fire unto the LORD.
Numbers 28:7	And the drink offering thereof shall be the fourth part of an hin for the one lamb: in the holy place shalt thou cause the strong wine to be poured unto the LORD for a drink offering.
Numbers 28:8	And the other lamb shalt thou offer at even: as the meat offering of the morning, and as the drink offering thereof, thou shalt offer it, a sacrifice made by fire, of a sweet savor unto the LORD.
Numbers 28:9	And on the sabbath day two lambs of the first year without spot, and two tenth deals of flour for a meat offering, mingled with oil, and the drink offering thereof:
Numbers 28:10	This is the burnt offering of every sabbath, beside the continual burnt offering, and his drink offering.
Numbers 28:11	And in the beginnings of your months ye shall offer a burnt offering unto the LORD; two young bullocks, and one ram, seven lambs of the first year without spot;
Numbers 28:12	And three tenth deals of flour for a meat offering, mingled with oil, for one bullock; and two tenth deals of flour for a meat offering, mingled with oil, for one ram;
Numbers 28:13	And a several tenth deal of flour mingled with oil for a meat offering unto one lamb; for a burnt offering of a sweet savor, a sacrifice made by fire unto the LORD.
Numbers 28:14	And their drink offerings shall be half an hin of wine unto a bullock, and the third part of an hin unto a ram, and a fourth part of an hin unto a lamb: this is the burnt offering of every month throughout the months of the year.
Numbers 28:15	And one kid of the goats for a sin offering unto the LORD shall be offered, beside the continual burnt offering, and his drink offering.
Numbers 28:16	And in the fourteenth day of the first month is the passover of the LORD.
Numbers 28:17	And in the fifteenth day of this month is the feast: seven days shall unleavened bread be eaten.
Numbers 28:18	In the first day shall be an holy convocation; ye shall do no manner of servile work therein:
Numbers 28:19	But ye shall offer a sacrifice made by fire for a burnt offering unto the LORD; two young bullocks, and one ram, and seven lambs of the first year: they shall be unto you without blemish:
Numbers 28:20	And their meat offering shall be of flour mingled with oil: three tenth deals shall ye offer for a bullock, and two tenth deals for a ram;
Numbers 28:21	A several tenth deal shalt thou offer for every lamb, throughout the seven lambs:
Numbers 28:22	And one goat for a sin offering, to make an atonement for you.
Numbers 28:23	Ye shall offer these beside the burnt offering in the morning, which is for a continual burnt offering.
Numbers 28:24	After this manner ye shall offer daily, throughout the seven days, the meat of the sacrifice made by fire, of a sweet savor unto the LORD: it shall be offered beside the continual burnt offering, and his drink offering.
Numbers 28:25	And on the seventh day ye shall have an holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work.
Numbers 28:26	Also in the day of the firstfruits, when ye bring a new meat offering unto the LORD, after your weeks be out, ye shall have an holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work:
Numbers 28:27	But ye shall offer the burnt offering for a sweet savor unto the LORD; two young bullocks, one ram, seven lambs of the first year;
Numbers 28:28	And their meat offering of flour mingled with oil, three tenth deals unto one bullock, two tenth deals unto one ram,
Numbers 28:29	A several tenth deal unto one lamb, throughout the seven lambs;
Numbers 28:30	And one kid of the goats, to make an atonement for you.
Numbers 28:31	Ye shall offer them beside the continual burnt offering, and his meat offering, (they shall be unto you without blemish) and their drink offerings.
Numbers 29:1	And in the seventh month, on the first day of the month, ye shall have an holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work: it is a day of blowing the trumpets unto you.
Numbers 29:2	And ye shall offer a burnt offering for a sweet savor unto the LORD; one young bullock, one ram, and seven lambs of the first year without blemish:
Numbers 29:3	And their meat offering shall be of flour mingled with oil, three tenth deals for a bullock, and two tenth deals for a ram,
Numbers 29:4	And one tenth deal for one lamb, throughout the seven lambs:
Numbers 29:5	And one kid of the goats for a sin offering, to make an atonement for you:
Numbers 29:6	Beside the burnt offering of the month, and his meat offering, and the daily burnt offering, and his meat offering, and their drink offerings, according unto their manner, for a sweet savor, a sacrifice made by fire unto the LORD.
Numbers 29:7	And ye shall have on the tenth day of this seventh month an holy convocation; and ye shall afflict your souls: ye shall not do any work therein:
Numbers 29:8	But ye shall offer a burnt offering unto the LORD for a sweet savor; one young bullock, one ram, and seven lambs of the first year; they shall be unto you without blemish:
Numbers 29:9	And their meat offering shall be of flour mingled with oil, three tenth deals to a bullock, and two tenth deals to one ram,
Numbers 29:10	A several tenth deal for one lamb, throughout the seven lambs:
Numbers 29:11	One kid of the goats for a sin offering; beside the sin offering of atonement, and the continual burnt offering, and the meat offering of it, and their drink offerings.
Numbers 29:12	And on the fifteenth day of the seventh month ye shall have an holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work, and ye shall keep a feast unto the LORD seven days:
Numbers 29:13	And ye shall offer a burnt offering, a sacrifice made by fire, of a sweet savor unto the LORD; thirteen young bullocks, two rams, and fourteen lambs of the first year; they shall be without blemish:
Numbers 29:14	And their meat offering shall be of flour mingled with oil, three tenth deals unto every bullock of the thirteen bullocks, two tenth deals to each ram of the two rams,
Numbers 29:15	And a several tenth deal to each lamb of the fourteen lambs:
Numbers 29:16	And one kid of the goats for a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering, his meat offering, and his drink offering.
Numbers 29:17	And on the second day ye shall offer twelve young bullocks, two rams, fourteen lambs of the first year without spot:
Numbers 29:18	And their meat offering and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, shall be according to their number, after the manner:
Numbers 29:19	And one kid of the goats for a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering, and the meat offering thereof, and their drink offerings.
Numbers 29:20	And on the third day eleven bullocks, two rams, fourteen lambs of the first year without blemish;
Numbers 29:21	And their meat offering and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, shall be according to their number, after the manner:
Numbers 29:22	And one goat for a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering, and his meat offering, and his drink offering.
Numbers 29:23	And on the fourth day ten bullocks, two rams, and fourteen lambs of the first year without blemish:
Numbers 29:24	Their meat offering and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, shall be according to their number, after the manner:
Numbers 29:25	And one kid of the goats for a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering, his meat offering, and his drink offering.
Numbers 29:26	And on the fifth day nine bullocks, two rams, and fourteen lambs of the first year without spot:
Numbers 29:27	And their meat offering and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, shall be according to their number, after the manner:
Numbers 29:28	And one goat for a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering, and his meat offering, and his drink offering.
Numbers 29:29	And on the sixth day eight bullocks, two rams, and fourteen lambs of the first year without blemish:
Numbers 29:30	And their meat offering and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, shall be according to their number, after the manner:
Numbers 29:31	And one goat for a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering, his meat offering, and his drink offering.
Numbers 29:32	And on the seventh day seven bullocks, two rams, and fourteen lambs of the first year without blemish:
Numbers 29:33	And their meat offering and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, shall be according to their number, after the manner:
Numbers 29:34	And one goat for a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering, his meat offering, and his drink offering.
Numbers 29:35	On the eighth day ye shall have a solemn assembly: ye shall do no servile work therein:
Numbers 29:36	But ye shall offer a burnt offering, a sacrifice made by fire, of a sweet savor unto the LORD: one bullock, one ram, seven lambs of the first year without blemish:
Numbers 29:37	Their meat offering and their drink offerings for the bullock, for the ram, and for the lambs, shall be according to their number, after the manner:
Numbers 29:38	And one goat for a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering, and his meat offering, and his drink offering.
Numbers 29:39	These things ye shall do unto the LORD in your set feasts, beside your vows, and your freewill offerings, for your burnt offerings, and for your meat offerings, and for your drink offerings, and for your peace offerings.
Numbers 29:40	And Moses told the children of Israel according to all that the LORD commanded Moses.
Numbers 30:1	And Moses spake unto the heads of the tribes concerning the children of Israel, saying, This is the thing which the LORD hath commanded.
Numbers 30:2	If a man vow a vow unto the LORD, or swear an oath to bind his soul with a bond; he shall not break his word, he shall do according to all that proceedeth out of his mouth.
Numbers 30:3	If a woman also vow a vow unto the LORD, and bind herself by a bond, being in her father's house in her youth;
Numbers 30:4	And her father hear her vow, and her bond wherewith she hath bound her soul, and her father shall hold his peace at her; then all her vows shall stand, and every bond wherewith she hath bound her soul shall stand.
Numbers 30:5	But if her father disallow her in the day that he heareth; not any of her vows, or of her bonds wherewith she hath bound her soul, shall stand: and the LORD shall forgive her, because her father disallowed her.
Numbers 30:6	And if she had at all an husband, when she vowed, or uttered ought out of her lips, wherewith she bound her soul;
Numbers 30:7	And her husband heard it, and held his peace at her in the day that he heard it: then her vows shall stand, and her bonds wherewith she bound her soul shall stand.
Numbers 30:8	But if her husband disallowed her on the day that he heard it; then he shall make her vow which she vowed, and that which she uttered with her lips, wherewith she bound her soul, of none effect: and the LORD shall forgive her.
Numbers 30:9	But every vow of a widow, and of her that is divorced, wherewith they have bound their souls, shall stand against her.
Numbers 30:10	And if she vowed in her husband's house, or bound her soul by a bond with an oath;
Numbers 30:11	And her husband heard it, and held his peace at her, and disallowed her not: then all her vows shall stand, and every bond wherewith she bound her soul shall stand.
Numbers 30:12	But if her husband hath utterly made them void on the day he heard them; then whatsoever proceeded out of her lips concerning her vows, or concerning the bond of her soul, shall not stand: her husband hath made them void; and the LORD shall forgive her.
Numbers 30:13	Every vow, and every binding oath to afflict the soul, her husband may establish it, or her husband may make it void.
Numbers 30:14	But if her husband altogether hold his peace at her from day to day; then he establisheth all her vows, or all her bonds, which are upon her: he confirmeth them, because he held his peace at her in the day that he heard them.
Numbers 30:15	But if he shall any ways make them void after that he hath heard them; then he shall bear her iniquity.
Numbers 30:16	These are the statutes, which the LORD commanded Moses, between a man and his wife, between the father and his daughter, being yet in her youth in her father's house.
Numbers 31:1	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
Numbers 31:2	Avenge the children of Israel of the Midianites: afterward shalt thou be gathered unto thy people.
Numbers 31:3	And Moses spake unto the people, saying, Arm some of yourselves unto the war, and let them go against the Midianites, and avenge the LORD of Midian.
Numbers 31:4	Of every tribe a thousand, throughout all the tribes of Israel, shall ye send to the war.
Numbers 31:5	So there were delivered out of the thousands of Israel, a thousand of every tribe, twelve thousand armed for war.
Numbers 31:6	And Moses sent them to the war, a thousand of every tribe, them and Phinehas the son of Eleazar the priest, to the war, with the holy instruments, and the trumpets to blow in his hand.
Numbers 31:7	And they warred against the Midianites, as the LORD commanded Moses; and they slew all the males.
Numbers 31:8	And they slew the kings of Midian, beside the rest of them that were slain; namely, Evi, and Rekem, and Zur, and Hur, and Reba, five kings of Midian: Balaam also the son of Beor they slew with the sword.
Numbers 31:9	And the children of Israel took all the women of Midian captives, and their little ones, and took the spoil of all their cattle, and all their flocks, and all their goods.
Numbers 31:10	And they burnt all their cities wherein they dwelt, and all their goodly castles, with fire.
Numbers 31:11	And they took all the spoil, and all the prey, both of men and of beasts.
Numbers 31:12	And they brought the captives, and the prey, and the spoil, unto Moses, and Eleazar the priest, and unto the congregation of the children of Israel, unto the camp at the plains of Moab, which are by Jordan near Jericho.
Numbers 31:13	And Moses, and Eleazar the priest, and all the princes of the congregation, went forth to meet them without the camp.
Numbers 31:14	And Moses was wroth with the officers of the host, with the captains over thousands, and captains over hundreds, which came from the battle.
Numbers 31:15	And Moses said unto them, Have ye saved all the women alive?
Numbers 31:16	Behold, these caused the children of Israel, through the counsel of Balaam, to commit trespass against the LORD in the matter of Peor, and there was a plague among the congregation of the LORD.
Numbers 31:17	Now therefore kill every male among the little ones, and kill every woman that hath known man by lying with him.
Numbers 31:18	But all the women children, that have not known a man by lying with him, keep alive for yourselves.
Numbers 31:19	And do ye abide without the camp seven days: whosoever hath killed any person, and whosoever hath touched any slain, purify both yourselves and your captives on the third day, and on the seventh day.
Numbers 31:20	And purify all your raiment, and all that is made of skins, and all work of goats' hair, and all things made of wood.
Numbers 31:21	And Eleazar the priest said unto the men of war which went to the battle, This is the ordinance of the law which the LORD commanded Moses;
Numbers 31:22	Only the gold, and the silver, the brass, the iron, the tin, and the lead,
Numbers 31:23	Every thing that may abide the fire, ye shall make it go through the fire, and it shall be clean: nevertheless it shall be purified with the water of separation: and all that abideth not the fire ye shall make go through the water.
Numbers 31:24	And ye shall wash your clothes on the seventh day, and ye shall be clean, and afterward ye shall come into the camp.
Numbers 31:25	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
Numbers 31:26	Take the sum of the prey that was taken, both of man and of beast, thou, and Eleazar the priest, and the chief fathers of the congregation:
Numbers 31:27	And divide the prey into two parts; between them that took the war upon them, who went out to battle, and between all the congregation:
Numbers 31:28	And levy a tribute unto the LORD of the men of war which went out to battle: one soul of five hundred, both of the persons, and of the beeves, and of the asses, and of the sheep:
Numbers 31:29	Take it of their half, and give it unto Eleazar the priest, for an heave offering of the LORD.
Numbers 31:30	And of the children of Israel's half, thou shalt take one portion of fifty, of the persons, of the beeves, of the asses, and of the flocks, of all manner of beasts, and give them unto the Levites, which keep the charge of the tabernacle of the LORD.
Numbers 31:31	And Moses and Eleazar the priest did as the LORD commanded Moses.
Numbers 31:32	And the booty, being the rest of the prey which the men of war had caught, was six hundred thousand and seventy thousand and five thousand sheep,
Numbers 31:33	And threescore and twelve thousand beeves,
Numbers 31:34	And threescore and one thousand asses,
Numbers 31:35	And thirty and two thousand persons in all, of women that had not known man by lying with him.
Numbers 31:36	And the half, which was the portion of them that went out to war, was in number three hundred thousand and seven and thirty thousand and five hundred sheep:
Numbers 31:37	And the LORD's tribute of the sheep was six hundred and threescore and fifteen.
Numbers 31:38	And the beeves were thirty and six thousand; of which the LORD's tribute was threescore and twelve.
Numbers 31:39	And the asses were thirty thousand and five hundred; of which the LORD's tribute was threescore and one.
Numbers 31:40	And the persons were sixteen thousand; of which the LORD's tribute was thirty and two persons.
Numbers 31:41	And Moses gave the tribute, which was the LORD's heave offering, unto Eleazar the priest, as the LORD commanded Moses.
Numbers 31:42	And of the children of Israel's half, which Moses divided from the men that warred,
Numbers 31:43	(Now the half that pertained unto the congregation was three hundred thousand and thirty thousand and seven thousand and five hundred sheep,
Numbers 31:44	And thirty and six thousand beeves,
Numbers 31:45	And thirty thousand asses and five hundred,
Numbers 31:46	And sixteen thousand persons;)
Numbers 31:47	Even of the children of Israel's half, Moses took one portion of fifty, both of man and of beast, and gave them unto the Levites, which kept the charge of the tabernacle of the LORD; as the LORD commanded Moses.
Numbers 31:48	And the officers which were over thousands of the host, the captains of thousands, and captains of hundreds, came near unto Moses:
Numbers 31:49	And they said unto Moses, Thy servants have taken the sum of the men of war which are under our charge, and there lacketh not one man of us.
Numbers 31:50	We have therefore brought an oblation for the LORD, what every man hath gotten, of jewels of gold, chains, and bracelets, rings, earrings, and tablets, to make an atonement for our souls before the LORD.
Numbers 31:51	And Moses and Eleazar the priest took the gold of them, even all wrought jewels.
Numbers 31:52	And all the gold of the offering that they offered up to the LORD, of the captains of thousands, and of the captains of hundreds, was sixteen thousand seven hundred and fifty shekels.
Numbers 31:53	(For the men of war had taken spoil, every man for himself.)
Numbers 31:54	And Moses and Eleazar the priest took the gold of the captains of thousands and of hundreds, and brought it into the tabernacle of the congregation, for a memorial for the children of Israel before the LORD.
Numbers 32:1	Now the children of Reuben and the children of Gad had a very great multitude of cattle: and when they saw the land of Jazer, and the land of Gilead, that, behold, the place was a place for cattle;
Numbers 32:2	The children of Gad and the children of Reuben came and spake unto Moses, and to Eleazar the priest, and unto the princes of the congregation, saying,
Numbers 32:3	Ataroth, and Dibon, and Jazer, and Nimrah, and Heshbon, and Elealeh, and Shebam, and Nebo, and Beon,
Numbers 32:4	Even the country which the LORD smote before the congregation of Israel, is a land for cattle, and thy servants have cattle:
Numbers 32:5	Wherefore, said they, if we have found grace in thy sight, let this land be given unto thy servants for a possession, and bring us not over Jordan.
Numbers 32:6	And Moses said unto the children of Gad and to the children of Reuben, Shall your brethren go to war, and shall ye sit here?
Numbers 32:7	And wherefore discourage ye the heart of the children of Israel from going over into the land which the LORD hath given them?
Numbers 32:8	Thus did your fathers, when I sent them from Kadeshbarnea to see the land.
Numbers 32:9	For when they went up unto the valley of Eshcol, and saw the land, they discouraged the heart of the children of Israel, that they should not go into the land which the LORD had given them.
Numbers 32:10	And the LORD's anger was kindled the same time, and he sware, saying,
Numbers 32:11	Surely none of the men that came up out of Egypt, from twenty years old and upward, shall see the land which I sware unto Abraham, unto Isaac, and unto Jacob; because they have not wholly followed me:
Numbers 32:12	Save Caleb the son of Jephunneh the Kenezite, and Joshua the son of Nun: for they have wholly followed the LORD.
Numbers 32:13	And the LORD's anger was kindled against Israel, and he made them wander in the wilderness forty years, until all the generation, that had done evil in the sight of the LORD, was consumed.
Numbers 32:14	And, behold, ye are risen up in your fathers' stead, an increase of sinful men, to augment yet the fierce anger of the LORD toward Israel.
Numbers 32:15	For if ye turn away from after him, he will yet again leave them in the wilderness; and ye shall destroy all this people.
Numbers 32:16	And they came near unto him, and said, We will build sheepfolds here for our cattle, and cities for our little ones:
Numbers 32:17	But we ourselves will go ready armed before the children of Israel, until we have brought them unto their place: and our little ones shall dwell in the fenced cities because of the inhabitants of the land.
Numbers 32:18	We will not return unto our houses, until the children of Israel have inherited every man his inheritance.
Numbers 32:19	For we will not inherit with them on yonder side Jordan, or forward; because our inheritance is fallen to us on this side Jordan eastward.
Numbers 32:20	And Moses said unto them, If ye will do this thing, if ye will go armed before the LORD to war,
Numbers 32:21	And will go all of you armed over Jordan before the LORD, until he hath driven out his enemies from before him,
Numbers 32:22	And the land be subdued before the LORD: then afterward ye shall return, and be guiltless before the LORD, and before Israel; and this land shall be your possession before the LORD.
Numbers 32:23	But if ye will not do so, behold, ye have sinned against the LORD: and be sure your sin will find you out.
Numbers 32:24	Build you cities for your little ones, and folds for your sheep; and do that which hath proceeded out of your mouth.
Numbers 32:25	And the children of Gad and the children of Reuben spake unto Moses, saying, Thy servants will do as my lord commandeth.
Numbers 32:26	Our little ones, our wives, our flocks, and all our cattle, shall be there in the cities of Gilead:
Numbers 32:27	But thy servants will pass over, every man armed for war, before the Lord to battle, as my lord saith.
Numbers 32:28	So concerning them Moses commanded Eleazar the priest, and Joshua the son of Nun, and the chief fathers of the tribes of the children of Israel:
Numbers 32:29	And Moses said unto them, If the children of Gad and the children of Reuben will pass with you over Jordan, every man armed to battle, before the LORD, and the land shall be subdued before you; then ye shall give them the land of Gilead for a possession:
Numbers 32:30	But if they will not pass over with you armed, they shall have possessions among you in the land of Canaan.
Numbers 32:31	And the children of Gad and the children of Reuben answered, saying, As the LORD hath said unto thy servants, so will we do.
Numbers 32:32	We will pass over armed before the LORD into the land of Canaan, that the possession of our inheritance on this side Jordan may be ours.
Numbers 32:33	And Moses gave unto them, even to the children of Gad, and to the children of Reuben, and unto half the tribe of Manasseh the son of Joseph, the kingdom of Sihon king of the Amorites, and the kingdom of Og king of Bashan, the land, with the cities thereof in the coasts, even the cities of the country round about.
Numbers 32:34	And the children of Gad built Dibon, and Ataroth, and Aroer,
Numbers 32:35	And Atroth, Shophan, and Jaazer, and Jogbehah,
Numbers 32:36	And Bethnimrah, and Bethharan, fenced cities: and folds for sheep.
Numbers 32:37	And the children of Reuben built Heshbon, and Elealeh, and Kirjathaim,
Numbers 32:38	And Nebo, and Baalmeon, (their names being changed,) and Shibmah: and gave other names unto the cities which they builded.
Numbers 32:39	And the children of Machir the son of Manasseh went to Gilead, and took it, and dispossessed the Amorite which was in it.
Numbers 32:40	And Moses gave Gilead unto Machir the son of Manasseh; and he dwelt therein.
Numbers 32:41	And Jair the son of Manasseh went and took the small towns thereof, and called them Havothjair.
Numbers 32:42	And Nobah went and took Kenath, and the villages thereof, and called it Nobah, after his own name.
Numbers 33:1	These are the journeys of the children of Israel, which went forth out of the land of Egypt with their armies under the hand of Moses and Aaron.
Numbers 33:2	And Moses wrote their goings out according to their journeys by the commandment of the LORD: and these are their journeys according to their goings out.
Numbers 33:3	And they departed from Rameses in the first month, on the fifteenth day of the first month; on the morrow after the passover the children of Israel went out with an high hand in the sight of all the Egyptians.
Numbers 33:4	For the Egyptians buried all their firstborn, which the LORD had smitten among them: upon their gods also the LORD executed judgments.
Numbers 33:5	And the children of Israel removed from Rameses, and pitched in Succoth.
Numbers 33:6	And they departed from Succoth, and pitched in Etham, which is in the edge of the wilderness.
Numbers 33:7	And they removed from Etham, and turned again unto Pihahiroth, which is before Baalzephon: and they pitched before Migdol.
Numbers 33:8	And they departed from before Pihahiroth, and passed through the midst of the sea into the wilderness, and went three days' journey in the wilderness of Etham, and pitched in Marah.
Numbers 33:9	And they removed from Marah, and came unto Elim: and in Elim were twelve fountains of water, and threescore and ten palm trees; and they pitched there.
Numbers 33:10	And they removed from Elim, and encamped by the Red sea.
Numbers 33:11	And they removed from the Red sea, and encamped in the wilderness of Sin.
Numbers 33:12	And they took their journey out of the wilderness of Sin, and encamped in Dophkah.
Numbers 33:13	And they departed from Dophkah, and encamped in Alush.
Numbers 33:14	And they removed from Alush, and encamped at Rephidim, where was no water for the people to drink.
Numbers 33:15	And they departed from Rephidim, and pitched in the wilderness of Sinai.
Numbers 33:16	And they removed from the desert of Sinai, and pitched at Kibrothhattaavah.
Numbers 33:17	And they departed from Kibrothhattaavah, and encamped at Hazeroth.
Numbers 33:18	And they departed from Hazeroth, and pitched in Rithmah.
Numbers 33:19	And they departed from Rithmah, and pitched at Rimmonparez.
Numbers 33:20	And they departed from Rimmonparez, and pitched in Libnah.
Numbers 33:21	And they removed from Libnah, and pitched at Rissah.
Numbers 33:22	And they journeyed from Rissah, and pitched in Kehelathah.
Numbers 33:23	And they went from Kehelathah, and pitched in mount Shapher.
Numbers 33:24	And they removed from mount Shapher, and encamped in Haradah.
Numbers 33:25	And they removed from Haradah, and pitched in Makheloth.
Numbers 33:26	And they removed from Makheloth, and encamped at Tahath.
Numbers 33:27	And they departed from Tahath, and pitched at Tarah.
Numbers 33:28	And they removed from Tarah, and pitched in Mithcah.
Numbers 33:29	And they went from Mithcah, and pitched in Hashmonah.
Numbers 33:30	And they departed from Hashmonah, and encamped at Moseroth.
Numbers 33:31	And they departed from Moseroth, and pitched in Benejaakan.
Numbers 33:32	And they removed from Benejaakan, and encamped at Horhagidgad.
Numbers 33:33	And they went from Horhagidgad, and pitched in Jotbathah.
Numbers 33:34	And they removed from Jotbathah, and encamped at Ebronah.
Numbers 33:35	And they departed from Ebronah, and encamped at Eziongaber.
Numbers 33:36	And they removed from Eziongaber, and pitched in the wilderness of Zin, which is Kadesh.
Numbers 33:37	And they removed from Kadesh, and pitched in mount Hor, in the edge of the land of Edom.
Numbers 33:38	And Aaron the priest went up into mount Hor at the commandment of the LORD, and died there, in the fortieth year after the children of Israel were come out of the land of Egypt, in the first day of the fifth month.
Numbers 33:39	And Aaron was an hundred and twenty and three years old when he died in mount Hor.
Numbers 33:40	And king Arad the Canaanite, which dwelt in the south in the land of Canaan, heard of the coming of the children of Israel.
Numbers 33:41	And they departed from mount Hor, and pitched in Zalmonah.
Numbers 33:42	And they departed from Zalmonah, and pitched in Punon.
Numbers 33:43	And they departed from Punon, and pitched in Oboth.
Numbers 33:44	And they departed from Oboth, and pitched in Ijeabarim, in the border of Moab.
Numbers 33:45	And they departed from Iim, and pitched in Dibongad.
Numbers 33:46	And they removed from Dibongad, and encamped in Almondiblathaim.
Numbers 33:47	And they removed from Almondiblathaim, and pitched in the mountains of Abarim, before Nebo.
Numbers 33:48	And they departed from the mountains of Abarim, and pitched in the plains of Moab by Jordan near Jericho.
Numbers 33:49	And they pitched by Jordan, from Bethjesimoth even unto Abelshittim in the plains of Moab.
Numbers 33:50	And the LORD spake unto Moses in the plains of Moab by Jordan near Jericho, saying,
Numbers 33:51	Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, When ye are passed over Jordan into the land of Canaan;
Numbers 33:52	Then ye shall drive out all the inhabitants of the land from before you, and destroy all their pictures, and destroy all their molten images, and quite pluck down all their high places:
Numbers 33:53	And ye shall dispossess the inhabitants of the land, and dwell therein: for I have given you the land to possess it.
Numbers 33:54	And ye shall divide the land by lot for an inheritance among your families: and to the more ye shall give the more inheritance, and to the fewer ye shall give the less inheritance: every man's inheritance shall be in the place where his lot falleth; according to the tribes of your fathers ye shall inherit.
Numbers 33:55	But if ye will not drive out the inhabitants of the land from before you; then it shall come to pass, that those which ye let remain of them shall be pricks in your eyes, and thorns in your sides, and shall vex you in the land wherein ye dwell.
Numbers 33:56	Moreover it shall come to pass, that I shall do unto you, as I thought to do unto them.
Numbers 34:1	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
Numbers 34:2	Command the children of Israel, and say unto them, When ye come into the land of Canaan; (this is the land that shall fall unto you for an inheritance, even the land of Canaan with the coasts thereof:)
Numbers 34:3	Then your south quarter shall be from the wilderness of Zin along by the coast of Edom, and your south border shall be the outmost coast of the salt sea eastward:
Numbers 34:4	And your border shall turn from the south to the ascent of Akrabbim, and pass on to Zin: and the going forth thereof shall be from the south to Kadeshbarnea, and shall go on to Hazaraddar, and pass on to Azmon:
Numbers 34:5	And the border shall fetch a compass from Azmon unto the river of Egypt, and the goings out of it shall be at the sea.
Numbers 34:6	And as for the western border, ye shall even have the great sea for a border: this shall be your west border.
Numbers 34:7	And this shall be your north border: from the great sea ye shall point out for you mount Hor:
Numbers 34:8	From mount Hor ye shall point out your border unto the entrance of Hamath; and the goings forth of the border shall be to Zedad:
Numbers 34:9	And the border shall go on to Ziphron, and the goings out of it shall be at Hazarenan: this shall be your north border.
Numbers 34:10	And ye shall point out your east border from Hazarenan to Shepham:
Numbers 34:11	And the coast shall go down from Shepham to Riblah, on the east side of Ain; and the border shall descend, and shall reach unto the side of the sea of Chinnereth eastward:
Numbers 34:12	And the border shall go down to Jordan, and the goings out of it shall be at the salt sea: this shall be your land with the coasts thereof round about.
Numbers 34:13	And Moses commanded the children of Israel, saying, This is the land which ye shall inherit by lot, which the LORD commanded to give unto the nine tribes, and to the half tribe:
Numbers 34:14	For the tribe of the children of Reuben according to the house of their fathers, and the tribe of the children of Gad according to the house of their fathers, have received their inheritance; and half the tribe of Manasseh have received their inheritance:
Numbers 34:15	The two tribes and the half tribe have received their inheritance on this side Jordan near Jericho eastward, toward the sunrising.
Numbers 34:16	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
Numbers 34:17	These are the names of the men which shall divide the land unto you: Eleazar the priest, and Joshua the son of Nun.
Numbers 34:18	And ye shall take one prince of every tribe, to divide the land by inheritance.
Numbers 34:19	And the names of the men are these: Of the tribe of Judah, Caleb the son of Jephunneh.
Numbers 34:20	And of the tribe of the children of Simeon, Shemuel the son of Ammihud.
Numbers 34:21	Of the tribe of Benjamin, Elidad the son of Chislon.
Numbers 34:22	And the prince of the tribe of the children of Dan, Bukki the son of Jogli.
Numbers 34:23	The prince of the children of Joseph, for the tribe of the children of Manasseh, Hanniel the son of Ephod.
Numbers 34:24	And the prince of the tribe of the children of Ephraim, Kemuel the son of Shiphtan.
Numbers 34:25	And the prince of the tribe of the children of Zebulun, Elizaphan the son of Parnach.
Numbers 34:26	And the prince of the tribe of the children of Issachar, Paltiel the son of Azzan.
Numbers 34:27	And the prince of the tribe of the children of Asher, Ahihud the son of Shelomi.
Numbers 34:28	And the prince of the tribe of the children of Naphtali, Pedahel the son of Ammihud.
Numbers 34:29	These are they whom the LORD commanded to divide the inheritance unto the children of Israel in the land of Canaan.
Numbers 35:1	And the LORD spake unto Moses in the plains of Moab by Jordan near Jericho, saying,
Numbers 35:2	Command the children of Israel, that they give unto the Levites of the inheritance of their possession cities to dwell in; and ye shall give also unto the Levites suburbs for the cities round about them.
Numbers 35:3	And the cities shall they have to dwell in; and the suburbs of them shall be for their cattle, and for their goods, and for all their beasts.
Numbers 35:4	And the suburbs of the cities, which ye shall give unto the Levites, shall reach from the wall of the city and outward a thousand cubits round about.
Numbers 35:5	And ye shall measure from without the city on the east side two thousand cubits, and on the south side two thousand cubits, and on the west side two thousand cubits, and on the north side two thousand cubits; and the city shall be in the midst: this shall be to them the suburbs of the cities.
Numbers 35:6	And among the cities which ye shall give unto the Levites there shall be six cities for refuge, which ye shall appoint for the manslayer, that he may flee thither: and to them ye shall add forty and two cities.
Numbers 35:7	So all the cities which ye shall give to the Levites shall be forty and eight cities: them shall ye give with their suburbs.
Numbers 35:8	And the cities which ye shall give shall be of the possession of the children of Israel: from them that have many ye shall give many; but from them that have few ye shall give few: every one shall give of his cities unto the Levites according to his inheritance which he inheriteth.
Numbers 35:9	And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,
Numbers 35:10	Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, When ye be come over Jordan into the land of Canaan;
Numbers 35:11	Then ye shall appoint you cities to be cities of refuge for you; that the slayer may flee thither, which killeth any person at unawares.
Numbers 35:12	And they shall be unto you cities for refuge from the avenger; that the manslayer die not, until he stand before the congregation in judgment.
Numbers 35:13	And of these cities which ye shall give six cities shall ye have for refuge.
Numbers 35:14	Ye shall give three cities on this side Jordan, and three cities shall ye give in the land of Canaan, which shall be cities of refuge.
Numbers 35:15	These six cities shall be a refuge, both for the children of Israel, and for the stranger, and for the sojourner among them: that every one that killeth any person unawares may flee thither.
Numbers 35:16	And if he smite him with an instrument of iron, so that he die, he is a murderer: the murderer shall surely be put to death.
Numbers 35:17	And if he smite him with throwing a stone, wherewith he may die, and he die, he is a murderer: the murderer shall surely be put to death.
Numbers 35:18	Or if he smite him with an hand weapon of wood, wherewith he may die, and he die, he is a murderer: the murderer shall surely be put to death.
Numbers 35:19	The revenger of blood himself shall slay the murderer: when he meeteth him, he shall slay him.
Numbers 35:20	But if he thrust him of hatred, or hurl at him by laying of wait, that he die;
Numbers 35:21	Or in enmity smite him with his hand, that he die: he that smote him shall surely be put to death; for he is a murderer: the revenger of blood shall slay the murderer, when he meeteth him.
Numbers 35:22	But if he thrust him suddenly without enmity, or have cast upon him any thing without laying of wait,
Numbers 35:23	Or with any stone, wherewith a man may die, seeing him not, and cast it upon him, that he die, and was not his enemy, neither sought his harm:
Numbers 35:24	Then the congregation shall judge between the slayer and the revenger of blood according to these judgments:
Numbers 35:25	And the congregation shall deliver the slayer out of the hand of the revenger of blood, and the congregation shall restore him to the city of his refuge, whither he was fled: and he shall abide in it unto the death of the high priest, which was anointed with the holy oil.
Numbers 35:26	But if the slayer shall at any time come without the border of the city of his refuge, whither he was fled;
Numbers 35:27	And the revenger of blood find him without the borders of the city of his refuge, and the revenger of blood kill the slayer; he shall not be guilty of blood:
Numbers 35:28	Because he should have remained in the city of his refuge until the death of the high priest: but after the death of the high priest the slayer shall return into the land of his possession.
Numbers 35:29	So these things shall be for a statute of judgment unto you throughout your generations in all your dwellings.
Numbers 35:30	Whoso killeth any person, the murderer shall be put to death by the mouth of witnesses: but one witness shall not testify against any person to cause him to die.
Numbers 35:31	Moreover ye shall take no satisfaction for the life of a murderer, which is guilty of death: but he shall be surely put to death.
Numbers 35:32	And ye shall take no satisfaction for him that is fled to the city of his refuge, that he should come again to dwell in the land, until the death of the priest.
Numbers 35:33	So ye shall not pollute the land wherein ye are: for blood it defileth the land: and the land cannot be cleansed of the blood that is shed therein, but by the blood of him that shed it.
Numbers 35:34	Defile not therefore the land which ye shall inhabit, wherein I dwell: for I the LORD dwell among the children of Israel.
Numbers 36:1	And the chief fathers of the families of the children of Gilead, the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh, of the families of the sons of Joseph, came near, and spake before Moses, and before the princes, the chief fathers of the children of Israel:
Numbers 36:2	And they said, The LORD commanded my lord to give the land for an inheritance by lot to the children of Israel: and my lord was commanded by the LORD to give the inheritance of Zelophehad our brother unto his daughters.
Numbers 36:3	And if they be married to any of the sons of the other tribes of the children of Israel, then shall their inheritance be taken from the inheritance of our fathers, and shall be put to the inheritance of the tribe whereunto they are received: so shall it be taken from the lot of our inheritance.
Numbers 36:4	And when the jubilee of the children of Israel shall be, then shall their inheritance be put unto the inheritance of the tribe whereunto they are received: so shall their inheritance be taken away from the inheritance of the tribe of our fathers.
Numbers 36:5	And Moses commanded the children of Israel according to the word of the LORD, saying, The tribe of the sons of Joseph hath said well.
Numbers 36:6	This is the thing which the LORD doth command concerning the daughters of Zelophehad, saying, Let them marry to whom they think best; only to the family of the tribe of their father shall they marry.
Numbers 36:7	So shall not the inheritance of the children of Israel remove from tribe to tribe: for every one of the children of Israel shall keep himself to the inheritance of the tribe of his fathers.
Numbers 36:8	And every daughter, that possesseth an inheritance in any tribe of the children of Israel, shall be wife unto one of the family of the tribe of her father, that the children of Israel may enjoy every man the inheritance of his fathers.
Numbers 36:9	Neither shall the inheritance remove from one tribe to another tribe; but every one of the tribes of the children of Israel shall keep himself to his own inheritance.
Numbers 36:10	Even as the LORD commanded Moses, so did the daughters of Zelophehad:
Numbers 36:11	For Mahlah, Tirzah, and Hoglah, and Milcah, and Noah, the daughters of Zelophehad, were married unto their father's brothers' sons:
Numbers 36:12	And they were married into the families of the sons of Manasseh the son of Joseph, and their inheritance remained in the tribe of the family of their father.
Numbers 36:13	These are the commandments and the judgments, which the LORD commanded by the hand of Moses unto the children of Israel in the plains of Moab by Jordan near Jericho.
Deuteronomy 1:1	These be the words which Moses spake unto all Israel on this side Jordan in the wilderness, in the plain over against the Red sea, between Paran, and Tophel, and Laban, and Hazeroth, and Dizahab.
Deuteronomy 1:2	(There are eleven days' journey from Horeb by the way of mount Seir unto Kadeshbarnea.)
Deuteronomy 1:3	And it came to pass in the fortieth year, in the eleventh month, on the first day of the month, that Moses spake unto the children of Israel, according unto all that the LORD had given him in commandment unto them;
Deuteronomy 1:4	After he had slain Sihon the king of the Amorites, which dwelt in Heshbon, and Og the king of Bashan, which dwelt at Astaroth in Edrei:
Deuteronomy 1:5	On this side Jordan, in the land of Moab, began Moses to declare this law, saying,
Deuteronomy 1:6	The LORD our God spake unto us in Horeb, saying, Ye have dwelt long enough in this mount:
Deuteronomy 1:7	Turn you, and take your journey, and go to the mount of the Amorites, and unto all the places nigh thereunto, in the plain, in the hills, and in the vale, and in the south, and by the sea side, to the land of the Canaanites, and unto Lebanon, unto the great river, the river Euphrates.
Deuteronomy 1:8	Behold, I have set the land before you: go in and possess the land which the LORD sware unto your fathers, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, to give unto them and to their seed after them.
Deuteronomy 1:9	And I spake unto you at that time, saying, I am not able to bear you myself alone:
Deuteronomy 1:10	The LORD your God hath multiplied you, and, behold, ye are this day as the stars of heaven for multitude.
Deuteronomy 1:11	(The LORD God of your fathers make you a thousand times so many more as ye are, and bless you, as he hath promised you!)
Deuteronomy 1:12	How can I myself alone bear your cumbrance, and your burden, and your strife?
Deuteronomy 1:13	Take you wise men, and understanding, and known among your tribes, and I will make them rulers over you.
Deuteronomy 1:14	And ye answered me, and said, The thing which thou hast spoken is good for us to do.
Deuteronomy 1:15	So I took the chief of your tribes, wise men, and known, and made them heads over you, captains over thousands, and captains over hundreds, and captains over fifties, and captains over tens, and officers among your tribes.
Deuteronomy 1:16	And I charged your judges at that time, saying, Hear the causes between your brethren, and judge righteously between every man and his brother, and the stranger that is with him.
Deuteronomy 1:17	Ye shall not respect persons in judgment; but ye shall hear the small as well as the great; ye shall not be afraid of the face of man; for the judgment is God's: and the cause that is too hard for you, bring it unto me, and I will hear it.
Deuteronomy 1:18	And I commanded you at that time all the things which ye should do.
Deuteronomy 1:19	And when we departed from Horeb, we went through all that great and terrible wilderness, which ye saw by the way of the mountain of the Amorites, as the LORD our God commanded us; and we came to Kadeshbarnea.
Deuteronomy 1:20	And I said unto you, Ye are come unto the mountain of the Amorites, which the LORD our God doth give unto us.
Deuteronomy 1:21	Behold, the LORD thy God hath set the land before thee: go up and possess it, as the LORD God of thy fathers hath said unto thee; fear not, neither be discouraged.
Deuteronomy 1:22	And ye came near unto me every one of you, and said, We will send men before us, and they shall search us out the land, and bring us word again by what way we must go up, and into what cities we shall come.
Deuteronomy 1:23	And the saying pleased me well: and I took twelve men of you, one of a tribe:
Deuteronomy 1:24	And they turned and went up into the mountain, and came unto the valley of Eshcol, and searched it out.
Deuteronomy 1:25	And they took of the fruit of the land in their hands, and brought it down unto us, and brought us word again, and said, It is a good land which the LORD our God doth give us.
Deuteronomy 1:26	Notwithstanding ye would not go up, but rebelled against the commandment of the LORD your God:
Deuteronomy 1:27	And ye murmured in your tents, and said, Because the LORD hated us, he hath brought us forth out of the land of Egypt, to deliver us into the hand of the Amorites, to destroy us.
Deuteronomy 1:28	Whither shall we go up? our brethren have discouraged our heart, saying, The people is greater and taller than we; the cities are great and walled up to heaven; and moreover we have seen the sons of the Anakims there.
Deuteronomy 1:29	Then I said unto you, Dread not, neither be afraid of them.
Deuteronomy 1:30	The LORD your God which goeth before you, he shall fight for you, according to all that he did for you in Egypt before your eyes;
Deuteronomy 1:31	And in the wilderness, where thou hast seen how that the LORD thy God bare thee, as a man doth bear his son, in all the way that ye went, until ye came into this place.
Deuteronomy 1:32	Yet in this thing ye did not believe the LORD your God,
Deuteronomy 1:33	Who went in the way before you, to search you out a place to pitch your tents in, in fire by night, to show you by what way ye should go, and in a cloud by day.
Deuteronomy 1:34	And the LORD heard the voice of your words, and was wroth, and sware, saying,
Deuteronomy 1:35	Surely there shall not one of these men of this evil generation see that good land, which I sware to give unto your fathers.
Deuteronomy 1:36	Save Caleb the son of Jephunneh; he shall see it, and to him will I give the land that he hath trodden upon, and to his children, because he hath wholly followed the LORD.
Deuteronomy 1:37	Also the LORD was angry with me for your sakes, saying, Thou also shalt not go in thither.
Deuteronomy 1:38	But Joshua the son of Nun, which standeth before thee, he shall go in thither: encourage him: for he shall cause Israel to inherit it.
Deuteronomy 1:39	Moreover your little ones, which ye said should be a prey, and your children, which in that day had no knowledge between good and evil, they shall go in thither, and unto them will I give it, and they shall possess it.
Deuteronomy 1:40	But as for you, turn you, and take your journey into the wilderness by the way of the Red sea.
Deuteronomy 1:41	Then ye answered and said unto me, We have sinned against the LORD, we will go up and fight, according to all that the LORD our God commanded us. And when ye had girded on every man his weapons of war, ye were ready to go up into the hill.
Deuteronomy 1:42	And the LORD said unto me, Say unto them. Go not up, neither fight; for I am not among you; lest ye be smitten before your enemies.
Deuteronomy 1:43	So I spake unto you; and ye would not hear, but rebelled against the commandment of the LORD, and went presumptuously up into the hill.
Deuteronomy 1:44	And the Amorites, which dwelt in that mountain, came out against you, and chased you, as bees do, and destroyed you in Seir, even unto Hormah.
Deuteronomy 1:45	And ye returned and wept before the LORD; but the LORD would not hearken to your voice, nor give ear unto you.
Deuteronomy 1:46	So ye abode in Kadesh many days, according unto the days that ye abode there.
Deuteronomy 2:1	Then we turned, and took our journey into the wilderness by the way of the Red sea, as the LORD spake unto me: and we compassed mount Seir many days.
Deuteronomy 2:2	And the LORD spake unto me, saying,
Deuteronomy 2:3	Ye have compassed this mountain long enough: turn you northward.
Deuteronomy 2:4	And command thou the people, saying, Ye are to pass through the coast of your brethren the children of Esau, which dwell in Seir; and they shall be afraid of you: take ye good heed unto yourselves therefore:
Deuteronomy 2:5	Meddle not with them; for I will not give you of their land, no, not so much as a foot breadth; because I have given mount Seir unto Esau for a possession.
Deuteronomy 2:6	Ye shall buy meat of them for money, that ye may eat; and ye shall also buy water of them for money, that ye may drink.
Deuteronomy 2:7	For the LORD thy God hath blessed thee in all the works of thy hand: he knoweth thy walking through this great wilderness: these forty years the LORD thy God hath been with thee; thou hast lacked nothing.
Deuteronomy 2:8	And when we passed by from our brethren the children of Esau, which dwelt in Seir, through the way of the plain from Elath, and from Eziongaber, we turned and passed by the way of the wilderness of Moab.
Deuteronomy 2:9	And the LORD said unto me, Distress not the Moabites, neither contend with them in battle: for I will not give thee of their land for a possession; because I have given Ar unto the children of Lot for a possession.
Deuteronomy 2:10	The Emims dwelt therein in times past, a people great, and many, and tall, as the Anakims;
Deuteronomy 2:11	Which also were accounted giants, as the Anakims; but the Moabites called them Emims.
Deuteronomy 2:12	The Horims also dwelt in Seir beforetime; but the children of Esau succeeded them, when they had destroyed them from before them, and dwelt in their stead; as Israel did unto the land of his possession, which the LORD gave unto them.
Deuteronomy 2:13	Now rise up, said I, and get you over the brook Zered. And we went over the brook Zered.
Deuteronomy 2:14	And the space in which we came from Kadeshbarnea, until we were come over the brook Zered, was thirty and eight years; until all the generation of the men of war were wasted out from among the host, as the LORD sware unto them.
Deuteronomy 2:15	For indeed the hand of the LORD was against them, to destroy them from among the host, until they were consumed.
Deuteronomy 2:16	So it came to pass, when all the men of war were consumed and dead from among the people,
Deuteronomy 2:17	That the LORD spake unto me, saying,
Deuteronomy 2:18	Thou art to pass over through Ar, the coast of Moab, this day:
Deuteronomy 2:19	And when thou comest nigh over against the children of Ammon, distress them not, nor meddle with them: for I will not give thee of the land of the children of Ammon any possession; because I have given it unto the children of Lot for a possession.
Deuteronomy 2:20	(That also was accounted a land of giants: giants dwelt therein in old time; and the Ammonites call them Zamzummims;
Deuteronomy 2:21	A people great, and many, and tall, as the Anakims; but the LORD destroyed them before them; and they succeeded them, and dwelt in their stead:
Deuteronomy 2:22	As he did to the children of Esau, which dwelt in Seir, when he destroyed the Horims from before them; and they succeeded them, and dwelt in their stead even unto this day:
Deuteronomy 2:23	And the Avims which dwelt in Hazerim, even unto Azzah, the Caphtorims, which came forth out of Caphtor, destroyed them, and dwelt in their stead.)
Deuteronomy 2:24	Rise ye up, take your journey, and pass over the river Arnon: behold, I have given into thine hand Sihon the Amorite, king of Heshbon, and his land: begin to possess it, and contend with him in battle.
Deuteronomy 2:25	This day will I begin to put the dread of thee and the fear of thee upon the nations that are under the whole heaven, who shall hear report of thee, and shall tremble, and be in anguish because of thee.
Deuteronomy 2:26	And I sent messengers out of the wilderness of Kedemoth unto Sihon king of Heshbon with words of peace, saying,
Deuteronomy 2:27	Let me pass through thy land: I will go along by the high way, I will neither turn unto the right hand nor to the left.
Deuteronomy 2:28	Thou shalt sell me meat for money, that I may eat; and give me water for money, that I may drink: only I will pass through on my feet;
Deuteronomy 2:29	(As the children of Esau which dwell in Seir, and the Moabites which dwell in Ar, did unto me;) until I shall pass over Jordan into the land which the LORD our God giveth us.
Deuteronomy 2:30	But Sihon king of Heshbon would not let us pass by him: for the LORD thy God hardened his spirit, and made his heart obstinate, that he might deliver him into thy hand, as appeareth this day.
Deuteronomy 2:31	And the LORD said unto me, Behold, I have begun to give Sihon and his land before thee: begin to possess, that thou mayest inherit his land.
Deuteronomy 2:32	Then Sihon came out against us, he and all his people, to fight at Jahaz.
Deuteronomy 2:33	And the LORD our God delivered him before us; and we smote him, and his sons, and all his people.
Deuteronomy 2:34	And we took all his cities at that time, and utterly destroyed the men, and the women, and the little ones, of every city, we left none to remain:
Deuteronomy 2:35	Only the cattle we took for a prey unto ourselves, and the spoil of the cities which we took.
Deuteronomy 2:36	From Aroer, which is by the brink of the river of Arnon, and from the city that is by the river, even unto Gilead, there was not one city too strong for us: the LORD our God delivered all unto us:
Deuteronomy 2:37	Only unto the land of the children of Ammon thou camest not, nor unto any place of the river Jabbok, nor unto the cities in the mountains, nor unto whatsoever the LORD our God forbade us.
Deuteronomy 3:1	Then we turned, and went up the way to Bashan: and Og the king of Bashan came out against us, he and all his people, to battle at Edrei.
Deuteronomy 3:2	And the LORD said unto me, Fear him not: for I will deliver him, and all his people, and his land, into thy hand; and thou shalt do unto him as thou didst unto Sihon king of the Amorites, which dwelt at Heshbon.
Deuteronomy 3:3	So the LORD our God delivered into our hands Og also, the king of Bashan, and all his people: and we smote him until none was left to him remaining.
Deuteronomy 3:4	And we took all his cities at that time, there was not a city which we took not from them, threescore cities, all the region of Argob, the kingdom of Og in Bashan.
Deuteronomy 3:5	All these cities were fenced with high walls, gates, and bars; beside unwalled towns a great many.
Deuteronomy 3:6	And we utterly destroyed them, as we did unto Sihon king of Heshbon, utterly destroying the men, women, and children, of every city.
Deuteronomy 3:7	But all the cattle, and the spoil of the cities, we took for a prey to ourselves.
Deuteronomy 3:8	And we took at that time out of the hand of the two kings of the Amorites the land that was on this side Jordan, from the river of Arnon unto mount Hermon;
Deuteronomy 3:9	(Which Hermon the Sidonians call Sirion; and the Amorites call it Shenir;)
Deuteronomy 3:10	All the cities of the plain, and all Gilead, and all Bashan, unto Salchah and Edrei, cities of the kingdom of Og in Bashan.
Deuteronomy 3:11	For only Og king of Bashan remained of the remnant of giants; behold his bedstead was a bedstead of iron; is it not in Rabbath of the children of Ammon? nine cubits was the length thereof, and four cubits the breadth of it, after the cubit of a man.
Deuteronomy 3:12	And this land, which we possessed at that time, from Aroer, which is by the river Arnon, and half mount Gilead, and the cities thereof, gave I unto the Reubenites and to the Gadites.
Deuteronomy 3:13	And the rest of Gilead, and all Bashan, being the kingdom of Og, gave I unto the half tribe of Manasseh; all the region of Argob, with all Bashan, which was called the land of giants.
Deuteronomy 3:14	Jair the son of Manasseh took all the country of Argob unto the coasts of Geshuri and Maachathi; and called them after his own name, Bashanhavothjair, unto this day.
Deuteronomy 3:15	And I gave Gilead unto Machir.
Deuteronomy 3:16	And unto the Reubenites and unto the Gadites I gave from Gilead even unto the river Arnon half the valley, and the border even unto the river Jabbok, which is the border of the children of Ammon;
Deuteronomy 3:17	The plain also, and Jordan, and the coast thereof, from Chinnereth even unto the sea of the plain, even the salt sea, under Ashdothpisgah eastward.
Deuteronomy 3:18	And I commanded you at that time, saying, The LORD your God hath given you this land to possess it: ye shall pass over armed before your brethren the children of Israel, all that are meet for the war.
Deuteronomy 3:19	But your wives, and your little ones, and your cattle, (for I know that ye have much cattle,) shall abide in your cities which I have given you;
Deuteronomy 3:20	Until the LORD have given rest unto your brethren, as well as unto you, and until they also possess the land which the LORD your God hath given them beyond Jordan: and then shall ye return every man unto his possession, which I have given you.
Deuteronomy 3:21	And I commanded Joshua at that time, saying, Thine eyes have seen all that the LORD your God hath done unto these two kings: so shall the LORD do unto all the kingdoms whither thou passest.
Deuteronomy 3:22	Ye shall not fear them: for the LORD your God he shall fight for you.
Deuteronomy 3:23	And I besought the LORD at that time, saying,
Deuteronomy 3:24	O Lord GOD, thou hast begun to show thy servant thy greatness, and thy mighty hand: for what God is there in heaven or in earth, that can do according to thy works, and according to thy might?
